
[Illustration: Benjamin Harrison]




                         SPEECHES

                            OF

                    BENJAMIN HARRISON

        TWENTY-THIRD PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES


  A COMPLETE COLLECTION OF HIS PUBLIC ADDRESSES FROM FEBRUARY,
      1888, TO FEBRUARY, 1892, CHRONOLOGICALLY CLASSIFIED;
        EMBRACING ALL HIS CAMPAIGN SPEECHES, LETTER
         OF ACCEPTANCE, INAUGURAL ADDRESS, AND THE
            NUMEROUS SPEECHES DELIVERED DURING
             HIS SEVERAL TOURS; ALSO EXTRACTS
                  FROM HIS MESSAGES TO
                         CONGRESS


                        COMPILED BY
                       CHARLES HEDGES


                          NEW YORK
                 UNITED STATES BOOK COMPANY
                       SUCCESSORS TO
                   JOHN W. LOVELL COMPANY
                  142 TO 150 WORTH STREET




COPYRIGHT, 1892,
BY
CHARLES HEDGES




PREFACE.


It is not the purpose of this book to present a few selections of
oratory, laboriously prepared and polished, or occasional flashes of
brilliant thought. From such efforts, prepared, perhaps, after days of
study and repeated revision, one can form but an imperfect idea of their
author. Such a compilation might show the highest conceptions of the
man, and evidence a wide range of thought and a surpassing grandeur of
expression; but it would be but a poor mirror of the man himself in his
daily life.

It is due to the people that the largest opportunity be given them to
observe the character of their public servants, to come into closest
touch with their daily thoughts, and to know them as they are--not when
prepared for special occasions, but day after day and all the time. It
is with this view that this collection of the speeches of President
Harrison is offered to the public. It is a series of instantaneous
photographs that have caught him unawares. The studied pose is wanting,
but the pictures are true to life.

There are included the letter of acceptance, the inaugural address,
the letter to the commercial congress, extracts from his last annual
message to Congress, his patriotic message on the Chilian affair, and
a few carefully prepared speeches, among them his notable addresses at
the banquet of the Michigan Club, February 22, 1888, and before the
Marquette Club at Chicago, March 20, the same year; also his celebrated
speech at Galveston, in April last. All these are among the best models
of statesmanlike thought and concise, forcible, and elegant expression.
With these exceptions, the speeches presented were delivered during the
presidential campaign of 1888, often four or five in a day, to visiting
delegations of citizens, representing every occupation and interest,
and during his tours of 1890 and 1891, when he often spoke eight or ten
times a day from the platform of his car.

If these speeches contained no other merit, they would be remarkable
in the fact that, while delivered during the excitement of a political
campaign and in the hurry of wayside pauses in a journey by railroad,
they contain not one carelessly spoken word that can detract from
their dignity, or, by any possible distortion of language, be turned
against their author by his political opponents. With no opportunity
for elaborately studied phrases, he did not utter a word that could be
sneered at as weak or commonplace. This fact is all the more noteworthy
when we recall the dismal failures that have been made by others under
like circumstances.

A spirit of exalted patriotism and broad statesmanship is apparent in
every line; and notwithstanding the malignity of the partisan assaults
that were made upon him, no words of bitterness--only terms of generous
tolerance--characterize his allusions to his political opponents.

With a single notable exception, no thought of sameness or repetition
is ever suggested. That exception was the central thought and vital
principle that was at stake in the campaign. One marvels at his
versatility in adapting himself to every occasion, whether he was
addressing a delegation of miners, of comrades in war, or of children
from the public schools; we admire the lofty thoughts and the delicious
humor; but while he might soften in tender, playful greeting of
children, or live again with his comrades the old life of tent and
field, he never for one moment forgot the great principle whose banner
he had been chosen to uphold. Protection of American industry was
always his foremost thought--and how well he presented it! What an
example to the politician who seeks by evasion or silence to avoid the
questions at issue!

The book is therefore presented with the gratifying belief that a
valuable service has been rendered in collecting these speeches and
putting them in an enduring form, not only because they give the
American people the most lifelike mental portrait of their Chief
Magistrate, but because they are a valuable contribution to American
literature.

In order to the best understanding and appreciation of an address, it
is often necessary to know the circumstances in which it was delivered.
Especially is this true when the address was made, as many of these
were, to some particular organization or class of citizens or at the
celebration of some important event. For this reason, as well as for
their important historical value, an account is given of the occasion
of each speech, including, as far as they could be learned, the names
of the more distinguished persons who were present and took part in the
exercises.

                                                                   C. H.

  WASHINGTON, D. C., February 20, 1892.




BIOGRAPHICAL.


Benjamin Harrison, twenty-third President of the United States, was born
Tuesday, August 20, 1833, at North Bend, Hamilton County, Ohio. He is
the second son of the late John Scott and Elizabeth Irwin Harrison.

His father--the third son of President William Henry Harrison and Anna
Symmes--was born at Vincennes, Indiana, was twice elected to Congress as
a Democrat, from the Cincinnati district, and died in 1878.

General William Henry Harrison, ninth President of the United
States, was the third son of a famous signer of the Declaration of
Independence--Benjamin Harrison, of Virginia, and his wife Elizabeth
Bassett. This Benjamin Harrison, "the signer," was one of the first
seven delegates from Virginia to the Continental Congress. He reported
the resolution for independence, was Speaker of the House of Burgesses,
and was thrice elected Governor of Virginia, dying in 1791; he was the
eldest son of Benjamin and Anna Carter Harrison, both of whom were
descended from ancestors distinguished for their high character and
their services to the colony of Virginia.

Ben Harrison's boyhood was passed upon his father's farm in Ohio. At the
age of 14, with his elder brother Irwin, he attended Farmer's College at
Cincinnati, preparatory to entering Miami University at Oxford, Ohio,
from which institution he graduated in 1852.

He studied law in the office of Judge Belamy Storer at Cincinnati, and
in March, 1854--with his bride, Miss Caroline W. Scott, to whom he
was wedded October 20, 1853--he located at Indianapolis and began the
practice of the law.

In 1860 he was elected reporter of the decisions of the Supreme Court of
Indiana, as a Republican, receiving 9,688 majority.

In July, 1862, he was commissioned by Gov. Oliver P. Morton as second
lieutenant, and raised Company A of the Seventieth Indiana Volunteer
Infantry, was commissioned captain, and on the organization of the
regiment was commissioned colonel. In August his regiment entered the
field and became a part of the 1st Brigade of the 1st Division of the
20th Army Corps, Gen. W. T. Ward, of Kentucky, brigade commander. At
the battle of Resaca, Sunday, May 15, 1864, the Seventieth Regiment led
the brigade in a gallant charge, and its colonel signally distinguished
himself, being among the first to scale the bloody parapet. He actively
participated in the engagements at Cassville, New Hope Church, Gilgal
Church, Kulps Hill, and Kenesaw. Following that great captain in the
Atlanta campaign, initiatory to his famous march to the sea, Colonel
Harrison at the battle of Peach Tree Creek, July 20, 1864, in the crisis
of the fight, without awaiting orders, seized an important position and
successfully resisted, at great loss, the terrific assaults of a large
detachment of Hood's army. For this brilliant achievement, upon the
recommendation of Major-General Joe Hooker, he was brevetted in March,
1865, by President Lincoln, a brigadier-general, to date from January
23, 1865.

In October, 1864, while at the front, he was re-elected, by 19,713
majority, reporter of the Supreme Court, which office he had lost by
accepting a commission in the army. After four years as reporter he
resumed his law practice, forming a partnership with Albert G. Porter
and W. P. Fishback. About 1870 Mr. Fishback retired, and the firm became
Porter, Harrison & Hines; upon Governor Porter's retirement W. H. H.
Miller took his place, and in 1883 Mr. Hines retired, and, John B. Elam
coming in, the firm became Harrison, Miller & Elam.

In 1876 Hon. Godlove S. Orth was nominated as Republican candidate for
Governor of Indiana, but pending the canvass he unexpectedly withdrew.
In this emergency, during General Harrison's absence on a trip to Lake
Superior, the Central Committee substituted his name at the head of
the ticket. Undertaking the canvass despite adverse conditions, he was
defeated by Hon. James D. Williams--"Blue Jeans"--by a plurality of
5,084 votes.

In 1878 he was chosen chairman of the Republican State Convention.

In 1879 he was appointed by President Hayes a member of the Mississippi
River Commission.

In 1880 he was chairman of the delegation from Indiana to the National
Convention, and with his colleagues cast 34 consecutive ballots for
James G. Blaine in that historic contest.

President Garfield tendered him any position but one in his Cabinet, but
the high honor was declined.

In January, 1881, he was elected United States Senator--the unanimous
choice of his party--to succeed Joseph E. McDonald, and served six years
to March 3, 1887.

In 1884 he again represented his State as delegate at large to the
National Convention.

January, 1887, he was a second time the unanimous choice of his party
for United States Senator, but after a protracted and exciting contest
was defeated on the sixteenth joint ballot, upon party lines, by 2
majority.

June 25, 1888, he was nominated at Chicago by the Republican National
Convention for President, on the eighth ballot, receiving 544 votes
against 118 for John Sherman, 100 for Russell A. Alger, and 59 for
Walter Q. Gresham. He was chosen President by 233 electoral votes
against 168 for Grover Cleveland. The popular vote resulted: 5,536,242
(48.63 per cent.) for the Democratic ticket, 5,440,708 (47.83 per cent.)
for the Republican ticket, 246,876 (2.16 per cent.) for the Prohibition,
146,836 (1.27 per cent.) for the Union Labor, and 7,777 (0.11 per cent.)
scattering.




HARRISON'S SPEECHES.




DETROIT, FEBRUARY 22, 1888.

_Michigan Club Banquet._


The Michigan Club, the largest and most influential political
organization in the State, held its third annual banquet at the Detroit
Rink on Washington's Birthday, 1888.

The officers of the club were: _President_, Clarence A. Black;
_Vice-President_, William H. Elliott; _Secretary_, Fred. E. Farnsworth;
_Treasurer_, Frederick Woolfenden.

Senator Thomas W. Palmer was president of the evening; the
vice-presidents were: Hons. F. B. Stockbridge, C. G. Luce, J. H.
Macdonald, Austin Blair, H. P. Baldwin, David H. Jerome, R. A. Alger, O.
D. Conger, Chas. D. Long, E. P. Allen, James O'Donnell, J. C. Burrows,
M. S. Brewer, S. M. Cutcheon, Henry W. Seymour, Benj. F. Graves, Isaac
Marston, Edward S. Lacy, John T. Rich, O. L. Spaulding, Geo. W. Webber,
Geo. Willard, E. W. Keightley, R. G. Horr, E. O. Grosvenor, James
Birney, C. E. Ellsworth, D. P. Markey.

The distinguished guests and speakers of the evening from other States
were: General Benjamin Harrison, Ind.; General Joseph R. Hawley, Conn.;
Hon. William McKinley, Jr., Ohio; Hon. Joseph G. Cannon, Hon. John F.
Finerty, and General Green B. Raum, Ill.; Hon. L. E. McComas, Md.; and
Hon. James P. Foster, N. Y.

General Harrison responded to the sentiment, "Washington, the
republican. The guarantee of the Constitution that the State shall have
a republican form of government is only executed when the majority in
the States are allowed to vote and have their ballots counted."

His speech attracted widespread attention at the time, and is considered
one of his greatest. One expression therein--viz.: "I am a dead
statesman, but a living and rejuvenated Republican"--went broadcast over
the land and became one of the keynotes of the campaign.

Senator Harrison made the first reference of the evening to the name of
"Chandler." It was talismanic; instantly a great wave of applause swept
over the banquet-hall, and thenceforth the speaker carried his hearers
with him.

The Senator spoke as follows:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Michigan Club_--I feel that I
  am at some disadvantage here to-night by reason of the fact that I
  did not approach Detroit from the direction of Washington city. I
  am a dead statesman ["No! No!"]; but I am a living and rejuvenated
  Republican. I have the pleasure to-night, for the first time in
  my life, of addressing an audience of Michigan Republicans. Your
  invitations in the past have been frequent and urgent, but I have
  always felt that you knew how to do your own work, that we could
  trust the stalwart Republicans of this magnificent State to hold
  this key of the lakes against all comers. I am not here to-night in
  the expectation that I shall be able to help you by any suggestion,
  or even to kindle into greater earnestness that zeal and interest
  in Republican principles which your presence here to-night so well
  attests. I am here rather to be helped myself, to bathe my soul in
  this high atmosphere of patriotism and pure Republicanism [applause]
  by spending a little season in the presence of those who loved and
  honored and followed the Cromwell of the Republican party, Zachariah
  Chandler. [Tremendous applause.]

  The sentiment which has been assigned me to-night--"Washington,
  the republican; a free and equal ballot the only guarantee of the
  Nation's security and perpetuity"--is one that was supported with a
  boldness of utterance, with a defiance that was unexcelled by any
  leader, by Zachariah Chandler always and everywhere. [Applause.] As
  Republicans we are fortunate, as has been suggested, in the fact
  that there is nothing in the history of our party, nothing in the
  principles that we advocate, to make it impossible for us to gather
  and to celebrate the birthday of any American who honored or defended
  his country. [Cheers.] We could even unite with our Democratic friends
  in celebrating the birthday of St. Jackson, because we enter into
  fellowship with him when we read his story of how by proclamation he
  put down nullification in South Carolina. [Applause.] We could meet
  with them to celebrate the birthday of Thomas Jefferson; because there
  is no note in the immortal Declaration or in the Constitution of our
  country that is out of harmony with Republicanism. [Cheers.] But our
  Democratic friends are under limitation. They have a short calendar of
  sense, and they must omit from the history of those whose names are
  on their calendar the best achievements of their lives. I do not know
  what the party is preserved for. Its history reminds me of the boulder
  in the stream of progress, impeding and resisting its onward flow and
  moving only by the force that it resists.

  I want to read a very brief extract from a most notable paper--one
  that was to-day in the Senate at Washington read from the desk by
  its presiding officer--the "Farewell Address of Washington;" and
  while it is true that I cannot quote or find in the writings of
  Washington anything specifically referring to ballot-box fraud, to
  tissue ballots, to intimidation, to forged tally-sheets [cheers],
  for the reason that these things had not come in his day to disturb
  the administration of the Government, yet in the comprehensiveness
  of the words he uttered, like the comprehensive declarations of
  the Holy Book, we may find admonition and guidance, and even with
  reference to a condition of things that his pure mind could have never
  contemplated. Washington said: "Liberty is indeed little less than a
  name where the Government is too feeble to withstand the enterprises
  of factions, to confine each member of society within the limits
  prescribed by the law, and to maintain all in the secure and tranquil
  enjoyment of the rights of persons and property." If I had read that
  to a Democratic meeting they would have suspected that it was an
  extract from some Republican speech. [Laughter.] My countrymen, this
  Government is that which I love to think of as my country; for not
  acres, or railroads, or farm products, or bulk meats, or Wall Street,
  or all combined, are the country that I love. It is the institution,
  the form of government, the frame of civil society, for which that
  flag stands, and which we love to-day. [Applause.] It is what Mr.
  Lincoln so tersely, yet so felicitously, described as a government of
  the people, by the people, and for the people; a government of the
  people, because they instituted it--the Constitution reads, "We,
  the people, have ordained;" by the people, because it is in all its
  departments administered by them; for the people, because it states as
  its object of supreme attainment the happiness, security and peace of
  the people that dwell under it. [Applause.]

  The bottom principle--sometimes it is called a corner-stone,
  sometimes the foundation of our structure of government--is the
  principle of control by the majority. It is more than the corner-stone
  or foundation. This structure is a monolith, one from foundation
  to apex, and that monolith stands for and is this principle of
  government by majorities, legally ascertained by constitutional
  methods. Everything else about our government is appendage, it is
  ornamentation. This is the monolithic column that was reared by
  Washington and his associates. For this the War of the Revolution
  was fought, for this and its more perfect security the Constitution
  was formed; for this the War of the Rebellion was fought; and when
  this principle perishes the structure which Washington and his
  compatriots reared is dishonored in the dust. The equality of the
  ballot demands that our apportionments in the States for legislative
  and congressional purposes shall be so adjusted that there shall be
  equality in the influence and the power of every elector, so that it
  shall not be true anywhere that one man counts two or one and a half
  and some other man counts only one half.

  But some one says that is fundamental. All men accept this truth.
  Not quite. My countrymen, we are confronted by this condition of
  things in America to-day; a government by the majority, expressed by
  an equal and a free ballot, is not only threatened, but it has been
  overturned. Why is it to-day that we have legislation threatening
  the industries of this country? Why is it that the paralyzing shadow
  of free trade falls upon the manufactures and upon the homes of our
  laboring classes? It is because the laboring vote in the Southern
  States is suppressed. There would be no question about the security of
  these principles so long established by law, so eloquently set forth
  by my friend from Connecticut, but for the fact that the workingmen
  of the South have been deprived of their influence in choosing
  representatives at Washington.

  But some timid soul is alarmed at the suggestion. He says we are
  endeavoring to rake over the coals of an extinct strife, to see if
  we may not find some ember in which there is yet sufficient vitality
  to rekindle the strife. Some man says you are actuated by unfriendly
  feelings toward the South, you want to fight the war over again, you
  are flaunting the bloody shirt. My countrymen, those epithets and that
  talk never have any terrors for me. [Applause.] I do not want to
  fight the war over again, and I am sure no Northern soldier--and there
  must be many here of those gallant Michigan regiments, some of which I
  had the pleasure during the war of seeing in action--not one of these
  that wishes to renew that strife or fight the war over again. Not one
  of this great assemblage of Republicans who listen to me to-night
  wishes ill to the South. If it were left to us here to-night the
  streams of her prosperity would be full. We would gladly hear of her
  reviving and stimulated industry. We gladly hear of increasing wealth
  in those States of the South. We wish them to share in the onward and
  upward movement of a great people. It is not a question of the war,
  it is not a question of the States between '61 and '65, at all, that
  I am talking about to-night. It is what they have been since '65. It
  is what they did in '84, when a President was to be chosen for this
  country.

  Our controversy is not one of the past; it is of the present. It has
  relation to that which will be done next November, when our people
  are again called to choose a President. What is it we ask? Simply
  that the South live up to the terms of the surrender at Appomattox.
  When that great chieftain received the surrender of the army of
  Northern Virginia, when those who had for four years confronted us
  in battle stacked arms in total surrender, the terms were simply
  these: "You shall go to your homes and shall be there unmolested so
  long as you obey the laws in force where you reside." That is the sum
  of our demand. We ask nothing more of the South to-night than that
  they shall cease to use this recovered citizenship which they had
  forfeited by rebellion to oppress and disfranchise those who equally
  with themselves under the Constitution are entitled to vote--that and
  nothing more.

  I do not need to enter into details. The truth to-day is that the
  colored Republican vote of the South, and with it and by consequence
  the white Republican vote of the South, is deprived of all effective
  influence in the administration of this Government. The additional
  power given by the colored population of the South in the Electoral
  College and in Congress was more than enough to turn the last
  election for President, and more than enough to reverse--yes, largely
  more than reverse--the present Democratic majority of the House of
  Representatives. Have we not the spirit to insist that everywhere
  north and south in this country of ours no man shall be deprived of
  his ballot by reason of his politics? There is not in all this land a
  place where any rebel soldier is subject to any restraint or is denied
  the fullest exercise of the elective franchise. Shall we not insist
  that what is true of those who fought to destroy the country shall be
  true of every man who fought for it, or loved it, like the black man
  of the South did [applause]--that to belong to Abraham Lincoln's party
  shall be respectable and reputable everywhere in America? [Cheers.]

  But this is not simply a Southern question. It has come to be a
  national question, for not only is the Republican vote suppressed
  in the South, but I ask you to turn your eyes to as fair and
  prosperous a territory as ever sat at the door of the Federal Union
  asking admission to the sisterhood of the States. See yonder in the
  northwest Dakota, the child of all these States, with 500,000 loyal,
  intelligent, law-abiding, prosperous American citizens robbed to-day
  of all participation in the affairs of this Nation. The hospitable
  door which has always opened to territories seeking admission
  is insolently closed in her face--and why? Simply because the
  predominating sentiment in the Territory of Dakota is Republican--that
  and nothing more. And that is not all. This question of a free,
  honest ballot has crossed the Ohio River. The overspill of these
  Southern frauds has reached Ohio and Indiana and Illinois, indicating
  to my mind a national conspiracy, having its centre and most potent
  influence in the Southern States, but reaching out into Ohio, Indiana
  and Illinois in its attempt by frauds upon the ballot-box to possess
  the Senate of the United States. Go down to Cincinnati in a recent
  election and look at the election returns, shamelessly, scandalously
  manipulated to return members to the Senate and House of Ohio, in
  order that that grand champion of Republican principles, John Sherman,
  might be defeated. Go yonder with me to Chicago and look into those
  frauds upon the ballot--devised, executed in furtherance of the same
  iniquitous scheme, intended to defeat the re-election of that gallant
  soldier, that fearless defender of Republican principles, John A.
  Logan of Illinois. [Great cheering.]

  And these people have even invaded Indiana. At the last election
  in my own State, first by gerrymander, they disturbed and utterly
  destroyed the equality of suffrage in that State; it was so framed as
  to give the Democratic party a majority of 50 on joint ballot; and
  Indiana gave a Republican majority on members of the Legislature of
  10,000, and yet they claim to hold the Legislature. And that is not
  all. Then, when gerrymander had failed, they introduced the eraser
  to help it out [laughter]; scratched our tally-sheets, shamelessly
  transferred ballots from Republican to Democratic candidates. How are
  we going to deal with these fellows? What is the remedy? As to the
  Southern aspect of this question, I have first to suggest that it is
  in the power of the free people of the North, those who love the
  Constitution and a free and equal ballot, those who, while claiming
  this high privilege for themselves, will deny it to no other man, to
  welcome a President who shall not come into office, into the enjoyment
  of the usufruct of these crimes, against the ballot [applause]; that
  will be great gain. And then we should aim to place in the Southern
  States, in every office exercising federal authority, men whose local
  influence will be against these frauds, instead of such men as the
  district attorney appointed by Mr. Cleveland, who in this recent
  outrage upon the ballot in Jackson, Miss., was found among the most
  active conspirators, when, by public resolution of a Democratic
  committee, Republicans of that city were warned away from the polls.
  Then again we shall keep ourselves free from all partisanship if
  we lift our voice steadily and constantly in protest against these
  offences.

  There is vast power in a protest. Public opinion is the most potent
  monarch this world knows to-day. Czars tremble in its presence, and
  we may bring to bear upon this question a public sentiment, by bold
  and fearless denunciation of it, that will do a great deal towards
  correcting it. Why, my countrymen, we meet now and then with these
  Irish-Americans and lift our voices in denunciations of the wrongs
  which England is perpetrating upon Ireland. [Applause.] We do not
  elect any Members of Parliament, but the voice of free America
  protesting against these centuries of wrongs has had a most potent
  influence in creating, stimulating and sustaining the liberal policy
  of William E. Gladstone and his associates. [Great applause.] Cannot
  we do as much for oppressed Americans? Can we not make our appeal to
  these Irish-American citizens who appeal to us in behalf of their
  oppressed fellow-countrymen to rally with us in this crusade against
  election frauds and intimidation in the country that they have made
  their own? [Applause.]

  There may be legislative remedies in sight when we can once again
  possess both branches of the national Congress and have an executive
  at Washington who has not been created by these crimes against the
  ballot. [Applause.] Whatever they are, we will seek them out and
  put them into force--not in a spirit of enmity against the men who
  fought against us--forgetting the war, but only insisting that now,
  nearly a quarter of a century after it is over, a free ballot shall
  not be denied to Republicans in these States where rebels have been
  rehabilitated with a full citizenship. [Applause.] Every question
  waits the settlement of this. The tariff question would be settled
  already if the 1,000,000 of black laborers in the South had their due
  representation in the House of Representatives.

  And my soldier friends, interested that liberal provisions should
  be made for the care of the disabled soldier--are they willing that
  this question should be settled without the presence in the House of
  Representatives of the power and influence of those faithful black
  men in the South who were always their friends? [Applause.] The
  dependent pension bill would pass over the President's veto if these
  black friends of the Union soldier had their fair representation in
  Congress. [Applause.] It is the dominant question at the foundation
  of our Government, in its dominating influence embracing all others,
  because it involves the question of a free and fair tribunal to
  which every question shall be submitted for arbitrament and final
  determination. Therefore, I would here, as we shall in Indiana, lift
  up our protest against these wrongs which are committed in the name
  of democracy, lift high our demand, and utter it with resolution,
  that it shall no longer be true that anywhere in this country men are
  disfranchised for opinion's sake.

  I believe there are indications that this power is taking hold of
  the North. Self-respect calls upon us. Does some devotee at the shrine
  of Mammon say it will disturb the public pulse? Do we hear from New
  York and her markets of trade that it is a disturbing question and we
  must not broach it? I beg our friends, and those who thus speak, to
  recollect that there is no peace, that there can be no security for
  commerce, no security for the perpetuation of our Government, except
  by the establishment of justice the country over. [Great applause.]




CHICAGO, MARCH 20, 1888.

_Marquette Club Banquet._


On the evening of March 20, 1888, General Harrison was the honored
guest of the Marquette Club of Chicago--one of the leading social and
political organizations of that great city--at their second annual
banquet, given at the Grand Pacific Hotel.

The officers of the club for that year were: George V. Lauman,
_President_; William H. Johnson, _First Vice-President_; Hubert D.
Crocker, _Second Vice-President_; Charles U. Gordon, _Secretary_; Will
Sheldon Gilbert, _Treasurer_.

The Banquet Committee and Committee of Reception for the occasion
comprised the following prominent members: James S. Moore, Frederick
G. Laird, LeRoy T. Steward, Wm. H. Johnson, James E. Rogers, F. W. C.
Hayes, Henry T. Smith, Harry J. Jones, Chas. S. Norton, Irving L. Gould,
T. A. Broadbent, Jas. Rood, Jr., Wm. A. Paulsen, T. M. Garrett, Geo. W.
Keehn, Harry P. Finney, C. B. Niblock, Wm. A. Lamson, S. E. Magill, R.
D. Wardwell, Fred. G. McNally.

President Lauman was toastmaster, and opened the banquet with an address
of welcome to Senator Harrison.

The other speakers of the evening were Edward J. Judd, Theodore
Brentano, Hon. Thomas C. MacMillan, Hon. John S. Runnells, Newton Wyeth,
Mayor Roche and President Tracy of the State League of Republican Clubs.

Amid hearty applause General Harrison rose to respond to the toast, "The
Republican Party." He spoke as follows:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Marquette Club_--I am under
  an obligation that I shall not soon forget in having been permitted
  by your courtesy to sit at your table to-night and to listen to the
  eloquent words which have fallen from the lips of those speakers who
  have preceded me. I count it a privilege to spend an evening with so
  many young Republicans. There seems to be a fitness in the association
  of young men with the Republican party. The Republican party is a
  young party. I have not yet begun to call myself an old man, and yet
  there is no older Republican in the United States than I am. My first
  presidential vote was given for the first presidential candidate of
  the Republican party, and I have supported with enthusiasm every
  successor of Frémont, including that matchless statesman who claimed
  our suffrages in 1884. We cannot match ages with the Democratic party
  any more than that party can match achievements with us. It has lived
  longer, but to less purpose. "Moss-backed" cannot be predicated
  of a Republican. Our Democratic friends have a monopoly of that
  distinction, and it is one of the few distinguished monopolies that
  they enjoy; and yet when I hear a Democrat boasting himself of the age
  of his party I feel like reminding him that there are other organized
  evils in the world, older than the Democratic party. "The Republican
  party," the toast which you have assigned to me to-night, seems to
  have a past, a present and a future tense to it. It suggests history,
  and yet history so recent that it is to many here to-night a story of
  current events in which they have been participants. The Republican
  party--the influences which called it together were eclectic in their
  character. The men who formed it and organized it were picked men.
  The first assembly that sounded in its camp was a call to sacrifice,
  and not to spoils. It assembled about an altar to sacrifice, and in a
  temple beset with enemies. It is the only political party organized
  in America that has its "Book of Martyrs." On the bloody fields of
  Kansas, Republicans died for their creed, and since then we have put
  in that book the sacred memory of our immortal leader who has been
  mentioned here to-night--Abraham Lincoln--who died for his faith and
  devotion to the principles of human liberty and constitutional union.
  And there have followed it a great army of men who have died by reason
  of the fact that they adhered to the political creed that we loved. It
  is the only party in this land which in the past has been proscribed
  and persecuted to death for its allegiance to the principles of human
  liberty. After Lincoln had triumphed in that great forum of debate in
  his contest with Douglas, the Republican party carried that debate
  from the hustings to the battle-field and forever established the
  doctrine that human liberty is of natural right and universal. It
  clinched the matchless logic of Webster in his celebrated debate
  against the right of secession by a demonstration of its inability.

  No party ever entered upon its administration of the affairs of
  this Nation under circumstances so beset with danger and difficulty
  as those which surrounded the Republican party when it took up the
  reins of executive control. In all other political contests those
  who had resisted the victorious party yielded acquiescence at the
  polls, but the Republican party in its success was confronted by
  armed resistance to national authority. The first acts of Republican
  administration were to assemble armies to maintain the authority of
  the Nation throughout the rebellious States. It organized armies,
  it fed them, and it fought them through those years of war with an
  undying and persistent faith that refused to be appalled by any
  dangers or discouraged by any difficulties. In the darkest days of the
  rebellion the Republican party by faith saw Appomattox through the
  smoke of Bull Run, and Raleigh through the mists of Chickamauga; and
  not only did it conduct this great civil war to a victorious end, not
  only did it restore the national authority and set up the flag on all
  those places where it had been overthrown and that flag torn down,
  but it in the act and as an incident in the restoration of national
  authority accomplished that act which, if no other had been recorded
  in its history, would have given it immortality. The emancipation of
  a race, brought about as an incident of war under the proclamation of
  the first Republican President, has forever immortalized the party
  that accomplished it.

  But not only were these dangers and difficulties and besetments and
  discouragements of this long strife at home, but there was also a call
  for the highest statesmanship in dealing with the foreign affairs
  of the Government during that period of war. England and France not
  only gave to the Confederacy belligerent rights, but threatened to
  extend recognition, and even armed intervention. There was scarcely
  a higher achievement in the long history of brilliant statesmanship
  which stands to the credit of our party than the matchless management
  of our diplomatic relations during the period of our war; dignified,
  yet reserved, masterful, yet patient. Those enemies of republican
  liberty were held at bay until we had accomplished perpetual peace
  at Appomattox. That grasping avarice which has attempted to coin
  commercial advantages out of the distress of other nations which has
  so often characterized English diplomacy naturally made the Government
  of England the ally of the Confederacy, that had prohibited protective
  duties in its constitution, and yet Geneva followed Appomattox. A
  trinity of effort was necessary to that consummation--war, finance
  and diplomacy; Grant, Chase, Seward, and Lincoln over all, and each
  a victor in his own sphere. When 500,000 veterans found themselves
  without any pressing engagement, and Phil Sheridan sauntered down
  towards the borders of Mexico, French evacuation was expedited, and
  when Gen. Grant advised the English Government that our claims for
  the depredations committed by those rebel cruisers that were sent
  out from British ports to prey upon our commerce must be paid, but
  that we were not in a hurry about it--we could wait, but in the mean
  time interest would accumulate--the Geneva arbitration was accepted
  and compensation made for these unfriendly invasions of our rights.
  It became fashionable again at the tables of the English nobility to
  speak of our common ancestry and our common tongue. Then again France
  began to remind us of La Fayette and De Grasse. Five hundred thousand
  veteran troops and an unemployed navy did more for us than a common
  tongue and ancient friendships would do in the time of our distress.
  And we must not forget that it is often easier to assemble armies
  than it is to assemble army revenues. Though no financial secretary
  ever had laid upon him a heavier burden than was placed upon Salmon
  P. Chase to provide the enormous expenditures which the maintenance
  of our army required, this ceaseless, daily, gigantic drain upon the
  National Treasury called for the highest statesmanship.

  And it was found, and our credit was not only maintained through the
  war, but the debt that was accumulated, which our Democratic friends
  said could never be paid, we at once began to discharge when the army
  was disbanded.

  And so it is that in this timely effort--consisting first in this
  appeal to the courage and patriotism of the people of this country
  that responded to the call of Lincoln and filled our armies with
  brave men that, under the leadership of Grant and Sherman and Thomas,
  suppressed the rebellion, and under the wise, magnificent system of
  our revenue enabled us to defray our expenses, and under the sagacious
  administration of our State Department held Europe at bay while we
  were attending to the business at home. In these departments of
  administration the Republican party has shown itself conspicuously
  able to deal with the greatest questions that have ever been presented
  to American statesmanship for solution. We must not forget that in
  dealing with these questions we were met continually by the protest
  and opposition of the Democratic party. The war against the States
  was unconstitutional. There was no right to coerce sovereign States.
  The war was a failure, and a dishonorable peace was demanded. The
  legal tenders were illegal. The constitutional amendments were void.
  And so through this whole brilliant history of achievement in this
  administration we were followed by the Democratic statesman protesting
  against every step and throwing every impediment in the way of
  National success until it seemed to be true of many of their leaders
  that in their estimation nothing was lawful, nothing was lovely, that
  did not conduce to the success of the rebellion.

  Now, what conclusion shall we draw? Is there anything in this story,
  so briefly and imperfectly told, to suggest any conclusion as to the
  inadequacy or incompetency of the Republican party to deal with any
  question that is now presented for solution or that we may meet in the
  progress of this people's history? Why, countrymen, these problems
  in government were new. We took the ship of state when there was
  treachery at the helm, when there was mutiny on the deck, when the
  ship was among the rocks, and we put loyalty at the helm; we brought
  the deck into order and subjection. We have brought the ship into
  the wide and open sea of prosperity, and is it to be suggested that
  the party that has accomplished these magnificent achievements cannot
  sail and manage the good ship in the frequented roadways of ordinary
  commerce? What is there now before us that presents itself for
  solution?

  What questions are we to grapple with? What unfinished work
  remains to be done? It seems to me that the work that is unfinished
  is to make that constitutional grant of citizenship, the franchise
  to the colored men of the South, a practical and living reality.
  The condition of things is such in this country--a government by
  constitutional majority--that whenever the people become convinced
  that an administration or a law does not represent the will of the
  majority of our qualified electors, then that administration ceases
  to challenge the respect of our people and that law ceases to command
  their willing obedience. This is a republican government, a government
  by majority, the majorities to be ascertained by a fair count and each
  elector expressing his will at the ballot-box. I know of no reason why
  any law should bind my conscience that does not have this sanction
  behind it. I know of no reason why I should yield respect to any
  executive officer whose title is not based upon a majority vote of the
  qualified electors of this country. What is the condition of things in
  the Southern States to-day?

  The Republican vote is absolutely suppressed. Elections in many of
  those States have become a farce. In the last congressional election
  in the State of Alabama there were several congressional districts
  where the entire vote for members of Congress did not reach 2,000;
  whereas in most of the districts of the North the vote cast at our
  congressional elections goes from 30,000 to 50,000. I had occasion to
  say a day or two ago that in a single congressional district in the
  State of Nebraska there were more votes cast to elect one Congressman
  than were cast in the State of Alabama at the same election to elect
  their whole delegation. Out of what does this come? The suppression of
  the Republican vote; the understanding among our Democratic friends
  that it is not necessary that they should vote because their opponents
  are not allowed to vote. But some one will suggest: "Is there a remedy
  for this?" I do not know, my fellow citizens, how far there is a legal
  remedy under our Constitution, but it does not seem to me to be an
  adequate answer. It does not seem to me to be conclusive against the
  agitation of the question even if we should be compelled to respond
  to the arrogant question that is asked us: "What are you going to
  do about it?" Even if we should be compelled to answer: "We can do
  nothing but protest," is it not worth while here, and in relation to
  this American question, that we should at least lift up our protest;
  that we should at least denounce the wrong; that we should at least
  deprive the perpetrators of it of what we used to call the usufructs
  of the crime? If you cannot prevent a burglar from breaking into your
  house you will do a great deal towards discouraging burglary if you
  prevent him from carrying off anything, and so it seems to me that if
  we can, upon this question, arouse the indignant protest of the North,
  and unite our efforts in a determination that those who perpetrate
  these wrongs against popular suffrage shall not by means of those
  wrongs seat a President in Washington to secure the Federal patronage
  in a State, we shall have done much to bring this wrong to an end. But
  at least while we are protesting by representatives from our State
  Department at Washington against wrongs perpetrated in Russia against
  the Jew, and in our popular assemblies here against the wrongs which
  England has inflicted upon Ireland, shall we not at least in reference
  to this gigantic and intolerable wrong in our own country, as a party,
  lift up a stalwart and determined protest against it?

  But some of these independent journalists, about which our friend
  MacMillan talked, call this the "bloody shirt." They say we are trying
  to revive the strife of the war, to rake over the extinct embers, to
  kindle the fire again. I want it understood that for one I have no
  quarrel with the South for what took place between 1861 and 1865. I am
  willing to forget that they were rebels, at least as soon as they are
  willing to forget it themselves, and that time does not seem to have
  come yet to them. But our complaint is against what was done in 1884,
  not against what was done during the war. Our complaint is against
  what will be done this year, not what was done between 1861 and 1865.
  No bloody shirt--though that cry never had any terrors for me. I
  believe we greatly underestimate the importance of bringing the issue
  to the front, and with that oft-time Republican courage and outspoken
  fidelity to truth denouncing it the land over. If we cannot do
  anything else we can either make these people ashamed of this outrage
  against the ballot or make the world ashamed of them.

  There is another question to which the Republican party has
  committed itself, and on the line of which it has accomplished, as
  I believe, much for the prosperity of this country. I believe the
  Republican party is pledged and ought to be pledged to the doctrine of
  the protection of American industries and American labor. I believe
  that in so far as our native inventive genius--which seems to have
  no limit--our productive forces can supply the American market, we
  ought to keep it for ourselves. And yet this new captain on the bridge
  seems to congratulate himself on the fact that the voyage is still
  prosperous notwithstanding the change of commanders; who seems to
  forget that the reason that the voyage is still prosperous is because
  the course of the ship was marked out before he went on the bridge and
  the rudder tied down. He has attempted to take a new direction since
  he has been in command, with a view of changing the sailing course of
  the old craft, but it has seemed to me that he has made the mistake of
  mistaking the flashlight of some British lighthouse for the light of
  day. I do not intend here to-night in this presence to discuss this
  tariff question in any detail. I only want to say that in the passage
  of what is now so flippantly called the war tariff, to raise revenue
  to carry on the war out of the protective duties which were then
  levied, there has come to this country a prosperity and development
  which would have been impossible without it, and that reversal of this
  policy now, at the suggestion of Mr. Cleveland, according to the line
  of the blind statesman from Texas, would be to stay and interrupt
  this march of prosperity on which we have entered. I am one of those
  uninstructed political economists that have an impression that some
  things may be too cheap; that I cannot find myself in full sympathy
  with this demand for cheaper coats, which seems to me necessarily to
  involve a cheaper man and woman under the coat. I believe it is true
  to-day that we have many things in this country that are too cheap,
  because whenever it is proved that the man or woman who produces any
  article cannot get a decent living out of it, then it is too cheap.

  But I have not intended to discuss in detail any of these questions
  with which we have grappled, upon which we have proclaimed a policy,
  or which we must meet in the near future. I am only here to-night
  briefly to sketch to you the magnificent career of this party to which
  we give our allegiance--a union of the States, restored, cemented,
  regenerated; a Constitution cleansed of its compromises with slavery
  and brought into harmony with the immortal Declaration; a race
  emancipated, given citizenship and the ballot; a national credit
  preserved and elevated until it stands unequalled among the nations of
  the world; a currency more prized than the coin for which it may be
  exchanged; a story of prosperity more marvellous than was ever written
  by the historian before. This is in brief outline the magnificent way
  in which the Republican party has wrought. It stands to-day for a
  pure, equal, honest ballot the country over. It stands to-day without
  prejudice or malice, the well-wisher of every State in this Union;
  disposed to fill all the streams of the South with prosperity, and
  demanding only that the terms of the surrender at Appomattox shall be
  complied with. When that magnificent act of clemency was witnessed,
  when those sublime and gracious words were uttered by General Grant
  at Appomattox, the country applauded. We said to those misguided men:
  "Go home"--in the language of the parole--"and you shall be unmolested
  while you obey the laws in force at the place where you reside." We
  ask nothing more, but we cannot quietly submit to the fact, while it
  is true everywhere in the United States that the man who fought for
  years against his country is allowed the full, free, unrestricted
  exercise of his new citizenship, when it shall not also be true
  everywhere that every man who followed Lincoln in his political views,
  and every soldier who fought to uphold the flag, shall in the same
  full, ample manner be secured in his political rights.

  This disfranchisement question is hardly a Southern question in all
  strictness. It has gone into Dakota, and the intelligent and loyal
  population of that Territory is deprived, was at the last election,
  and will be again, of any participation in the decision of national
  questions solely because the prevailing sentiment of Dakota is
  Republican. Not only that, but this disregard of purity and honesty in
  our elections invaded Ohio in an attempt to seize the United States
  Senate by cheating John Sherman, that gallant statesman, out of his
  seat in the Senate. And it came here to Illinois, in an attempt also
  to defeat that man whom I loved so much, John A. Logan, out of his
  seat in the United States Senate. And it has come into our own State
  (Indiana) by tally-sheet frauds, committed by individuals, it is true,
  but justified and defended by the Democratic party of the State in an
  attempt to cheat us all out of our fair election majorities. It was
  and is a question that lies over every other question, for every other
  question must be submitted to this tribunal for decision, and if the
  tribunal is corrupted, why shall we debate questions at all? Who can
  doubt whether, in defeat or victorious, in the future as in the past,
  taking high ground upon all these questions, the same stirring cause
  that assembled our party in the beginning will yet be found drawing
  like a great magnet the young and intelligent moral elements of our
  country into the Republican organization? Defeated once, we are ready
  for this campaign which is impending, and I believe that the great
  party of 1860 is gathering together for the coming election with a
  force and a zeal and a resolution that will inevitably carry it, under
  that standard-bearer who may be chosen here in June, to victory in
  November.




INDIANAPOLIS, JUNE 25, 1888.

_Nomination Day._


A few hours after the receipt of the news of the nomination of General
Harrison for President, on Monday, June 25, 1888, delegations from
neighboring cities and towns began to arrive to congratulate him. From
the moment the result at Chicago was known, and for two days thereafter,
the city of Indianapolis was the scene of excitement and enthusiasm
unparalleled in its history.

The first out-of-town delegation to arrive was the Republican Club of
Danville, Hendricks County, Indiana, three hundred strong, led by the
Hon. L. M. Campbell, Rev. Ira J. Chase, Major J. B. Homan, Joel T.
Baker, Capt. Worrel, and E. Hogate.

They came on the afternoon of the twenty-fifth and marched to the
Harrison residence escorted by about five thousand excited citizens of
Indianapolis, and it was to these men of Hendricks that General Harrison
made his first public speech--after his nomination--which proved to be
the opening words of a series of impromptu addresses remarkable for
their eloquence, conciseness and variety, and generally conceded by the
press of the day to have been the most brilliant and successful campaign
speeches of his generation.

To the Danville Club General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen_--I am very much obliged to my Hendricks County friends
  for this visit. The trouble you have taken to make this call so soon
  after information of the result at Chicago reached you induces me
  to say a word or two, though you will not, of course, expect any
  reference to politics or any extended reference to the result at
  Chicago. I very highly appreciate the wise, discreet and affectionate
  interest which our delegation and the people of Indiana have displayed
  in the convention which has just closed at Chicago. [Cries of "Good!"
  "Good!" and cheers.] I accept your visit to-day as an expression of
  your confidence and respect, and I thank you for it. [Great cheering.]

Scarcely had the Danville visit concluded before another organization
from Hendricks County arrived, the Republican Club of Plainfield, led by
Dr. Harlan, William G. Ellis, Oscar Hadley, and A. T. Harrison.

Responding to their call, General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen_--I can only thank you for this evidence of your
  friendliness. That so many of my Hendricks County friends should have
  reached Indianapolis so soon after hearing the result at Chicago is
  very gratifying. The people of your county have always given me the
  most hearty support whenever I have appealed to them for support. I
  have a most affectionate interest in your county and in its people,
  especially because of the fact that it furnished two companies to the
  regiment which I took into the field. Some of the best and most loyal
  of these soldiers gave their lives for their country in the battles in
  which the regiment was engaged. These incidents have attached me to
  the county, and I trust I have yet, even here among this group, some
  of my friends of the Seventieth Indiana surviving, who will always be
  glad to extend to me, as I to them, a comrade's hand. I thank you for
  this call.

A few moments later two large delegations arrived from Hamilton and
Howard Counties: Hon. J. R. Gray of Noblesville and Milton Garrigus of
Kokomo delivered congratulatory addresses on behalf of their townsmen,
to which General Harrison responded:

  I thank you, my friends of Hamilton County, for this call. I know
  the political steadfastness of that true and tried county. Your people
  have always been kind to me. I thank you for this evidence of your
  confidence and respect.

  Howard County. Of that county I may say what I have said of Hamilton
  County. It is a neighbor in location and it is a neighbor in good
  works. [Great cheering.]

On the evening of the twenty-fifth five thousand or more neighbors and
residents of the city congregated before the Harrison residence.

The General, on appearing, was greeted by a demonstration lasting
several minutes. The standard-bearers, carrying the great banner of
the Oliver P. Morton Club, made their way to the steps and held the
flag over his head. Hon. W. N. Harding finally quieted the crowd and
presented General Harrison, who spoke as follows:

  _Neighbors and Friends_--I am profoundly sensible of the kindness
  which you evidence to-night in gathering in such large numbers
  to extend to me your congratulations over the result at Chicago.
  It would be altogether inappropriate that I should say anything
  of a partisan character. Many of my neighbors who differ with me
  politically have kindly extended to me, as citizens of Indianapolis,
  their congratulations over this event. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!"] Such
  congratulations, as well as those of my neighbors who sympathize with
  me in my political beliefs, are exceedingly grateful. I have been a
  long time a resident of Indianapolis--over thirty years. Many who are
  here before me have been with me, during all those years, citizens of
  this great and growing capital of a magnificent State. We have seen
  the development and growth of this city. We are proud of its position
  to-day, and we look forward in the future to a development which shall
  far outstrip that which the years behind us have told. I thank you
  sincerely for this evidence that those who have known me well and long
  give me still their confidence and respect. [Cheers and applause.]

  Kings sometimes bestow decorations upon those whom they desire to
  honor, but that man is most highly decorated who has the affectionate
  regard of his neighbors and friends. [Great applause, and cries of
  "Hurrah for Harrison!"] I will only again thank you most cordially
  for this demonstration of your regard. I shall be glad, from time to
  time, as opportunity offers, to meet you all personally, and regret
  that to-night this crowd is so great that it will be impossible for me
  to take each one of you by the hand [cries of "We'll forgive you!"],
  but we will be here together and my house will always open its doors
  gladly to any of you when you may desire to see me. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JUNE 26.


The evening of the day following his nomination General Harrison was
visited by the surviving members of his old regiment, the Seventieth
Indiana Volunteers, led by Major George W. Grubbs of Martinsville. There
was also present a delegation from Boone County headed by the Hon. Henry
L. Bynum, O. P. Mahan and S. J. Thompson; also the returning delegates
from Vermont to the Chicago convention, headed by Gov. Redfield Proctor
and General J. G. McCullough.

Responding to the address of Major Grubbs, on behalf of the veterans,
General Harrison said:

  _Comrades_--Called, as I have been, by the national convention of
  one of the great political parties of this country to be its candidate
  for the presidency, it will probably be my fortune before the election
  to receive many delegations representing various interests and classes
  of our fellow-citizens, but I am sure that out of them all there will
  come none whose coming will touch my heart so deeply as this visit
  from my comrades of the Seventieth Indiana and these scattered members
  of the other regiments that constituted the First Brigade of the Third
  Division of the Twentieth Army Corps. I recall the scene to which
  Major Grubbs has alluded. I remember that summer day, when, equipped
  and armed, we were called to leave our homes and cross the Ohio River
  and enter the territory that was in arms against the Government which
  we were sworn to support. I recall, with you, the tender parting, the
  wringing of hearts with which we left those we loved. I recall the
  high and buoyant determination, the resolute carriage with which you
  went to do your part in the work of suppressing the great rebellion.
  I remember the scenes through which we went in that hard discipline
  of service and sickness, and all of those hard incidents which are
  necessary to convert citizens into veterans.

  I remember the scenes of battle in which we stood together. I
  remember especially that broad and deep grave at the foot of the
  Resaca hill where we left those gallant comrades who fell in that
  desperate charge. I remember, through it all, the gallantry, devotion
  and steadfastness, the high set patriotism you always exhibited. I
  remember how, after sweeping down with Sherman from Chattanooga to the
  sea and up again through the Carolinas and Virginia, you, with those
  gallant armies that had entered the gate of the South by Louisville
  and Vicksburg, marched in the great review up the grand avenue of our
  Nation's capital.

  I remember that proud scene of which we were part that day; the
  glad rejoicing as our faces were turned homeward, the applause which
  greeted us as the banner of our regiment was now and then recognized
  by some home friends who had gathered to see us--the whole course of
  these incidents of battle, of sickness, of death, of victory, crowned
  thus by the triumphant reassertion of national authority, and by the
  muster out and our return to those homes that we loved, made again
  secure against all the perils which had threatened them.

  I feel that in this campaign upon which I am entering, and which
  will undoubtedly cause careful scrutiny, perhaps unkind and even
  malicious assault, all that related to my not conspicuous but loyal
  services with you in the army I may confidently leave, with my honor,
  in the hands of the surviving members of the Seventieth Indiana,
  whatever their political faith may be. [Cries of "That is true,
  General!" and "Yes!" "Yes!"]

  May I ask you now, for I am too deeply moved by this visit to speak
  as I would desire, that each one will enter this door, that will
  always open with a hearty welcome to you, and let me take you by the
  hand? [Cheering.]

The event of the night was the visit of the California delegation,
at ten o'clock, accompanied by the Indiana delegation to Chicago and
several hundred personal friends and neighbors of General Harrison just
returned from Chicago, where they had been laboring for his nomination.

The Hon. M. H. de Young and John F. Ellison of California delivered
congratulatory addresses, on conclusion of which the Californians
hastened to their train; after they departed the great crowd refused to
disperse and called repeatedly for General Harrison, who responded as
follows:

  _Fellow-Citizens, Ladies and Gentlemen_--I am very deeply impressed
  and gratified with this magnificent demonstration of your respect. No
  man can be so highly honored by any convention, or by any decoration
  which any of the authorities of the Government can bestow, as by the
  respect and confidence of those who live near him. My heart is touched
  by this demonstration which my fellow-citizens have given me of their
  personal respect for me. I do not, however, accept this manifestation
  of interest as wholly due to myself. The great bulk of those who
  are assembled here to-night manifest rather their interest in those
  political principles which I have been called by the representatives,
  in national convention of the Republican party, to represent in this
  campaign. But I will not discuss any of those high issues to-night,
  because I am glad to know that among those who are gathered here,
  and among those who have paid me the compliment of their presence in
  my home, there are many citizens of Indianapolis who differ with me
  politically. I would not, therefore, if it were otherwise proper, mar
  this occasion by the discussion of any political topic. I am glad to
  have an opportunity to return my sincere and heartfelt thanks to the
  Indiana delegation, and to that band of devoted friends who gathered
  about them and assisted them in their work at Chicago. When I saw in
  the newspaper press of the East and of the West the encomiums that
  were passed by the correspondents upon the deportment and character of
  the representatives of Indiana at Chicago, I was greatly pleased. When
  I heard of their affectionate devotion, of their discreet and wise
  presentation of the claims of Indiana, I was still further gratified.
  And if the result of that convention had been, as it well might have
  been if individuals had only been considered in the contest that was
  there waged, the selection for this high place of some one other
  than myself, I should have felt that the devoted interest, the wise
  and faithful presentation by the Indiana delegation of the Indiana
  situation was such that the failure to yield to their argument would
  still have left me crowned with the highest crown that can be placed
  upon mortal brow--the affection and confidence and discreet support
  of my friends from Indiana. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!"] I am glad that
  the despatches said of them, and truly said, that they conducted their
  canvass with that gentle and respectful regard to the interests and
  character of the others who were named for this high place, and that
  they came home without those regrets which must have followed if this
  victory had been won at the expense of any of those noble names that
  were presented for the suffrage of the convention.

  I do not feel at all that in selecting the candidate who was chosen
  regard was had simply to the individual equipment and qualifications
  for the duties of this high office. I feel sure that if the convention
  had felt free to regard these things only, some other of those
  distinguished men, old-time leaders of the Republican party, Blaine,
  or Sherman, or Allison, or some of the others named--would have been
  chosen in preference to me. I feel that it was the situation in
  Indiana and its relation to the campaign that was impending rather
  than the personal equipment or qualifications of the candidate that
  was chosen that turned the choice of the convention in our direction.
  We are here to-night to thank those members of the convention who
  have done us the honor to pay our capital a visit to-night not only
  for this visit, but for the support and interest which they took in
  the Indiana candidacy in the convention at Chicago. I thank you again
  for gathering here to-night. I am sure that in this demonstration
  you give evidence that the interest in this campaign will not flag
  until the election has determined the result of the contest. And I
  feel sure, too, my fellow-citizens, that we have joined now a contest
  of great principles, and that the armies which are to fight out this
  great contest before the American people will encamp upon the high
  plains of principle, and not in the low swamps of personal defamation
  or detraction. [Cries of "Hear!" "Hear!" and "Good!"] Again I thank
  you for the compliment of your presence here to-night, and bid you
  good-night. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JUNE 30.


During the afternoon representatives of the Marquette Club of
Chicago--of which General Harrison is an honorary member--called to
present a set of congratulatory resolutions adopted by the club. The
committee comprised Geo. V. Lauman, H. D. Crocker, W. S. Gilbert, E. B.
Gould, H. M. Kingman and J. S. Moore.

One of the resolutions recited that

"The Marquette Club of Chicago takes great pride in the fact that within
its walls and at its board was fired the first gun in Chicago of that
memorable contest which has culminated in the nomination of its most
honored member, General Benjamin Harrison, to fill the highest office
within the gift of the American people."

General Harrison in response said:

  _Gentlemen of the Marquette Club_--I sincerely thank you for the
  congratulations of the Marquette Club of Chicago. I well recollect
  the evening I spent with you last February, and I remember how
  favorably your club impressed me at that time as a body of active,
  energetic young Republicans: not so much an organization for social
  purposes as for active advancement of Republican principles in your
  vicinity, and in the country as well. I thought I recognized in you
  then an efficient body for work in the State of Illinois, one that
  could in the coming campaign render signal service to the party whose
  principles its members maintain. I rejoice in your coming to call on
  me here, and I hope you will carry my sincere thanks to your members,
  and make yourselves welcome at my home now and whenever you are in
  Indianapolis.

On the evening of June 30 several thousand citizens, irrespective of
party, paid their respects to General Harrison; at the head of the
column marched four hundred veterans commanded by Moses G. McLain. Major
James L. Mitchell, a prominent Democrat, was spokesman for the veterans.

General Harrison, responding, said:

  _Comrade Mitchell and Fellow-Soldiers_--I sincerely thank you for
  this evidence of your respect and comradeship. I am very certain that
  there is no class whose confidence and respect I more highly prize or
  more earnestly covet than that of the soldiers who, in the great war
  from 1861 to 1865, upheld the loved banner of our country and brought
  it home in honor. The comradeship of the war will never end until our
  lives end. The fires in which our friendship was riveted and welded
  were too hot for the bond ever to be broken. We sympathize with each
  other in the glory of the common cause for which we fought. We went,
  not as partisans, but as patriots, into the strife which involved
  the national life. I am sure that no army was ever assembled in the
  world's history that was gathered from higher impulses than the army
  of the Union. [Cries of "Right!" "Right!"]

  It was no sordid impulse, no hope of spoils that induced these men
  to sunder the tender associations of home and forsake their business
  pursuits to look into the grim face of death with unblanched cheeks
  and firm and resolute eyes. They are the kind of men who draw their
  impulses from the high springs of truth and duty. The army was great
  in its assembling. It came with an impulse that was majestic and
  terrible. It was as great in its muster-out as in the brilliant work
  which had been done in the field. When the war was over the soldier
  was not left at the tavern. Every man had in some humble place a chair
  by some fireside where he was loved and towards which his heart went
  forward with a quick step. [Applause.]

  And so this great army that had rallied for the defence and
  preservation of the country was disbanded without tumult or riot or
  any public disturbance. It had covered the country with the mantle of
  its protection when it needed it, as the snows of spring cover the
  early vegetation, and when the warm sun of peace shone upon it, it
  disappeared as the snow sinks into the earth to refresh and vivify
  the summer growth. They found their homes; they carried their brawn
  and intellect into all the pursuits of peace to stimulate them and
  lift them up; they added their great impulse to that great wave of
  prosperity which has swept over our country ever since. [Applause.]
  But in nothing was this war greater than in that it led a race into
  freedom and brought those whom we had conquered in the struggle
  into the full enjoyment of a restored citizenship, and shared again
  with them the responsibilities and duties of a restored government.
  [Applause.]

  I thank you to-night most sincerely for this evidence of your
  comradeship. I thank, specially, those friends who differ with me in
  their political views, that they have put these things aside to-night,
  and have come here to give me a comrade's greeting. [Applause.] May I
  have the privilege now, without detaining you longer, of taking by the
  hand every soldier here? [Applause.]

Later, the same evening, the Harrison League of Indianapolis, numbering
three hundred colored men, assembled on the lawn and congratulated the
Republican nominee through its spokesman, Mr. Ben D. Bagby. General
Harrison's response was as follows:

  _Mr. Bagby and Gentlemen of the Harrison Club_--I assure you that I
  have a sincere respect for, and a very deep interest in, the colored
  people of the United States. My memory, as a boy, goes back to the
  time when slavery existed in the Southern States. I was born upon the
  Ohio River, which was the boundary between the free State of Ohio and
  the slave State of Kentucky. Some of my earliest recollections relate
  to the stirring and dramatic interest which was now and then excited
  by the pursuit of an escaping slave for the hope of offered rewards.

  I remember, as a boy, wandering once through my grandfather's
  orchard at North Bend, and in pressing through an alder thicket that
  grew on its margin I saw sitting in its midst a colored man with the
  frightened look of a fugitive in his eye, and attempting to satisfy
  his hunger with some walnuts he had gathered. He noticed my approach
  with a fierce, startled look, to see whether I was likely to betray
  him; I was frightened myself and left him in some trepidation, but I
  kept his secret. [Cries of "Good!" "Good!"] I have seen the progress
  which has been made in the legislation relating to your race, and the
  progress that the race itself has made since that day. When I came to
  Indiana to reside the unfriendly black code was in force. My memory
  goes back to the time when colored witnesses were first allowed to
  appear in court in this State to testify in cases where white men were
  parties. Prior to that time, as you know, you had been excluded from
  the right to tell in court, under oath, your side of the story in any
  legal controversy with white men. [Cries of "I know that!"] The laws
  prevented your coming here. In every way you were at a disadvantage,
  even in the free States. I have lived to see this unfriendly
  legislation removed from our statute-books and the unfriendly section
  of our State Constitution repealed. I have lived not only to see that,
  but to see the race emancipated and slavery extinct. [Cries of "Amen
  to that!"]

  Nothing gives me more pleasure among the results of the war than
  this. History will give a prominent place in the story of this great
  war to the fact that it resulted in making all men free, and gave
  to you equal civil rights. The imagination and art of the poet, the
  tongue of the orator, the skill of the artist will be brought under
  contribution to tell this story of the emancipation of the souls of
  men. [Applause and cries of "Amen!"]

  Nothing gives me so much gratification as a Republican as to feel
  that in all the steps that led to this great result the Republican
  party sympathized with you, pioneered for you in legislation, and was
  the architect of those great measures of relief which have so much
  ameliorated your condition. [Applause.]

  I know nowhere in this country of a monument that I behold with so
  much interest, that touches my heart so deeply, as that monument at
  Washington representing the Proclamation of Emancipation by President
  Lincoln, the kneeling black man at the feet of the martyred President,
  with the shackles falling from his limbs.

  I remember your faithfulness during the time of the war. I remember
  your faithful service to the army as we were advancing through an
  unknown country. We could always depend upon the faithfulness of the
  black man. [Cries of "Right you are!"] He might be mistaken, but he
  was never false. Many a time in the darkness of night have those
  faithful men crept to our lines and given us information of the
  approach of the enemy. I shall never forget a scene that I saw when
  Sherman's army marched through a portion of North Carolina, between
  Raleigh and Richmond, where our troops had never before been. The
  colored people had not seen our flag since the banner of treason had
  been set up in its stead. As we were passing through a village the
  colored people flocked out to see once more the starry banner of
  freedom, the emblem, promise, and security of their emancipation. I
  remember an aged woman, over whom nearly a century of slavery must
  have passed, pressed forward to see the welcome banner that told her
  that her soul would go over into the presence of her God. I remember
  her exultation of spirit as she danced in the dusty road before our
  moving column, and, like Miriam of old, called upon her soul to
  rejoice in the deliverance which God had wrought by the coming of
  those who stood for and made secure the Proclamation of Emancipation.
  [Applause.]

  I rejoice in all that you have accomplished since you have been
  free. I recall no scene more pathetic than that which I have often
  seen about our camp-fires. An aged man, a fugitive from slavery, had
  found freedom in our camp. After a day of hard work, when taps had
  sounded and the lights in the tents were out, I have seen him with the
  spelling-book that the chaplain had given him, lying prone upon the
  ground taxing his old eyes, and pointing with his hardened finger to
  the letters of the alphabet, as he endeavored to open to his clouded
  brain the avenues of information and light.

  I am glad to know that that same desire to increase and enlarge
  your information possesses the race to-day. It is the open way for
  the race to that perfect emancipation which will remove remaining
  prejudices and secure to you in all parts of the land an equal and
  just participation in the government of this country. It cannot much
  longer be withholden from you.

  Again I thank you for your presence here to-night and will be glad
  to take by the hand any of you who desire to see me. [Great applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 4, 1888.

_The Notification._


The Indiana Republican State Committee, through its chairman, the Hon.
James N. Huston, designated as a committee to receive and escort the
committee on notification from the National Convention the following
gentlemen:

Ex-Gov. Albert G. Porter, Mayor Caleb S. Denny, Col. John C. New, J. N.
Huston, Col. J. H. Bridgland, Hon. Stanton J. Peelle, William Wallace,
M. G. McLain, N. S. Byram, Hon. W. H. Calkins, W. J. Richards, and Hon.
H. M. LaFollette.

At noon on July 4 the notification committee representing the Republican
National Convention arrived under escort at the residence of General
Harrison, No. 674 Delaware Street. The following delegates comprised the
committee:

Judge Morris M. Estee of California, _Chairman_; Alabama, A. H.
Hendricks; Arkansas, Logan H. Roots; California, Paris Kilburn;
Colorado, Henry R. Wolcott; Connecticut, E. S. Henry; Delaware, J.
R. Whitaker; Florida, F. M. Wicker; Georgia, W. W. Brown; Illinois,
Thomas W. Scott; Indiana, J. N. Huston; Iowa, Thomas Updegraff; Kansas,
Henry L. Alden; Kentucky, George Denny; Louisiana, Andrew Hero; Maine,
Samuel H. Allen; Maryland, Wm. M. Marine; Massachusetts, F. L. Burden;
Michigan, Wm. McPherson; Minnesota, R. B. Langdon; Mississippi, T. W.
Stringer; Missouri, A. W. Mullins; Nebraska, R. S. Norval; Nevada, S.
E. Hamilton; New Hampshire, P. C. Cheney; New Jersey, H. H. Potter; New
York, Obed Wheeler; North Carolina, D. C. Pearson; Ohio, Charles Foster;
Oregon, F. P. Mays; Pennsylvania, Frank Reeder; Rhode Island, B. M.
Bosworth; South Carolina, Paris Simpkins; Tennessee, J. C. Dougherty;
Texas, E. H. Terrell; Vermont, Redfield Proctor; Virginia, Harry Libby;
West Virginia, C. B. Smith; Wisconsin, H. C. Payne; Arizona, Geo.
Christ; Dakota, G. W. Hopp; Dist. Columbia, P. H. Carson; Idaho, G. A.
Black; Montana, G. O. Eaton; New Mexico, J. F. Chavez; Utah, J. J. Daly;
Washington, T. H. Minor; Wyoming, C. D. Clark.

Chairman Estee spoke for the committee; his address signed by each
member was also presented to General Harrison, who in a full, clear
voice replied as follows:

  _Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Committee_--The official notice
  which you have brought of the nomination conferred upon me by the
  Republican National Convention recently in session at Chicago
  excites emotions of a profound, though of a somewhat conflicting,
  character. That after full deliberation and free consultation the
  representatives of the Republican party of the United States should
  have concluded that the great principles enunciated in the platform
  adopted by the convention could be in some measure safely confided
  to my care is an honor of which I am deeply sensible and for which
  I am very grateful. I do not assume or believe that this choice
  implies that the convention found in me any pre-eminent fitness or
  exceptional fidelity to the principles of government to which we are
  mutually pledged. My satisfaction with the result would be altogether
  spoiled if that result had been reached by any unworthy methods or
  by a disparagement of the more eminent men who divided with me the
  suffrages of the convention. I accept the nomination with so deep a
  sense of the dignity of the office and of the gravity of its duties
  and the responsibilities as altogether to exclude any feeling of
  exultation or pride. The principles of government and the practices
  in administration upon which issues are now fortunately so clearly
  made are so important in their relations to the national and to
  individual prosperity that we may expect an unusual popular interest
  in the campaign. Relying wholly upon the considerate judgment of our
  fellow-citizens and the gracious favor of God, we will confidently
  submit our cause to the arbitrament of a free ballot.

  The day you have chosen for this visit suggests no thoughts that are
  not in harmony with the occasion. The Republican party has walked in
  the light of the Declaration of Independence. It has lifted the shaft
  of patriotism upon the foundation laid at Bunker Hill. It has made
  the more perfect union secure by making all men free. Washington and
  Lincoln, Yorktown and Appomattox, the Declaration of Independence and
  the Proclamation of Emancipation are naturally and worthily associated
  in our thoughts to-day.

  As soon as may be possible I shall by letter communicate to your
  chairman a more formal acceptance of the nomination, but it may be
  proper for me now to say that I have already examined the platform
  with some care, and that its declarations, to some of which your
  chairman has alluded, are in harmony with my views. It gives me
  pleasure, gentlemen, to receive you in my home and to thank you for
  the cordial manner in which you have conveyed your official message.

At the conclusion of these formalities Charles W. Clisbee, one of
the secretaries of the National Convention, presented the nominee an
engrossed official copy of the Republican platform.

July 4, 1888, was a memorable day in the life of General Harrison and
his wife; for aside from the official notification of his nomination,
they were the recipients of congratulations of a unique character from
the Tippecanoe Club of Marion County, a political organization composed
exclusively of veterans who had voted for General William Henry Harrison
in the campaigns of 1836 or 1840.

Nearly all the younger and able-bodied members attended the Chicago
Convention and worked unceasingly for the nomination of General Benjamin
Harrison.

Their average age was seventy-five years, while one member, James
Hubbard of Mapleton, was over one hundred years old.

On the afternoon of the fourth, ninety-one of these veterans commanded
by their marshal, Isaac Taylor, marched to General Harrison's house
through the rain. They had adopted a congratulatory address which was
presented by a committee consisting of Dr. George W. New, Judge J. B.
Julian, and Dr. Lawson Abbett, to which General Harrison feelingly
replied as follows:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Tippecanoe Club of Marion
  County_--I am very deeply touched by your visit to-day. The respect
  and confidence of such a body of men is a crown. Many of you I
  have known since I first came to Indianapolis. I count you my
  friends. [Cries of "Yes, sir, we are!"] You have not only shown
  your friendliness and respect in the political contests in which my
  name has been used, but very many of you in the social and business
  relations of life extended to me, when I came a young man among you,
  encouragement and help. I know that at the beginning your respect and
  confidence was builded upon the respect, and even affection--may I not
  say, which you bore to my grandfather. [A voice, "Yes, that is true!"]
  May I not, without self-laudation, now say that upon that foundation
  you have since created a modest structure of respect for me? [Cries
  of "Yes, sir!" "We have!" "That's the talk!"] I came among you with
  the heritage I trust, of a good name [cries of "That's so!" "Good
  stock!"], such as all of you enjoy. It was the only inheritance that
  has been transmitted in our family. [Cries of "It has been!"] I think
  you recollect, and, perhaps, it was that as much as aught else that
  drew your choice in 1840 to the Whig candidate for the presidency,
  that he came out of Virginia to the West with no fortune but the sword
  he bore, and unsheathed it here in the defence of our frontier homes.
  He transmitted little to his descendants but the respect he had won
  from his fellow-citizens. It seems to be the settled habit in our
  family to leave nothing else to our children. [Laughter and cries of
  "That's enough!"] My friends, I am a thorough believer in the American
  test of character [cries of "That's right!"]: the rule must be applied
  to a man's own life when his stature is taken He will not build high
  who does not build for himself. [Applause and cries of "That's true!"]
  I believe also in the American opportunity which puts the starry sky
  above every boy's head, and sets his foot upon a ladder which he may
  climb until his strength gives out.

  I thank you cordially for your greeting, and for this tender of
  your help in this campaign. It will add dignity and strength to the
  campaign when it is found that the zealous, earnest, and intelligent
  co-operation of men of mature years like you is given to it. The
  Whig party to which you belonged had but one serious fault--there
  were not enough of them after 1840. [Laughter and applause.] We have
  since received to our ranks in the new and greater party to which you
  now belong accessions from those who were then our opponents, and
  we now unite with them in the defence of principles which were dear
  to you as Whigs, which were indeed the cherished and distinguishing
  principles of the Whig party; and in the olden and better time, of the
  Democratic party also. Chief among these were a reverent devotion to
  the Constitution and the flag, and a firm faith in the benefits of a
  protective tariff. If, in some of the States, under a sudden and mad
  impulse some of the old Whigs who stood with you in the campaign of
  1840, to which you have referred, wandered from us, may we not send to
  them to-day the greetings of these their old associates, and invite
  them to come again into the fold?

  And now, gentlemen, I thank you again for your visit, and would be
  glad if you would remain with us for a little personal intercourse.




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 7.


Five hundred commercial travellers paid a visit to General Harrison
on July 7; they came from all parts of the country, principally from
Philadelphia, Cincinnati, St. Louis, and Louisville. Major James R.
Ross was marshal of their delegation; David E. Coffin presented the
"drummers" to General and Mrs. Harrison.

When all had gathered within or about the residence, Col. Ed. H. Wolfe
of Rushville, Indiana, delivered a congratulatory address on behalf of
the visitors. General Harrison, responding, said:

  _Gentlemen of the Commercial Travellers' Association of Indiana
  and Visiting Friends_--I most heartily thank you for this cordial
  manifestation of your respect. It is to be expected when one has been
  named for office by one of the great parties that those who are in
  accord with him in his political convictions will show their interest
  in the campaign which he represents, but it is particularly gratifying
  to me that many of you who differ with me in political opinion,
  reserving your own opinions and choice, have come here to-night to
  express your gratification, personally, that I have been named by the
  Republican party as its candidate for the presidency.

  It is a very pleasant thing in politics when this sort of testimony
  is possible, and it is very gratifying to me to-night to receive it at
  your hands. I do not know why we cannot hold our political differences
  with respect for each other's opinions, and with entire respect for
  each other personally. Our opinions upon the great questions which
  divide parties ought not to be held in such a spirit of bigotry as
  will prevent us from extending to a political opponent the concession
  of honesty in his opinion and that personal respect to which he may be
  entitled. [Applause.]

  I very much value this visit from you, for I think I know how to
  estimate the commercial travellers of America. I am not going to open
  before you to-night any store of flattery. I do not think there is
  any market for it here. [Laughter and cries of "That's good!" and
  cheers.] You know the value of that commodity perfectly. [Laughter
  and continued applause.] I do not mean to suggest at all that you are
  dealers in it yourselves [laughter] in your intercourse with your
  customers, but I do mean to say that your wide acquaintance with men,
  that judgment of character and even of the moods of men which is
  essential to the successful prosecution of your business makes you a
  very unpromising audience upon which to pass any stale compliments.

  My memory goes back to the time when there were no commercial
  travellers. When I first came to Indianapolis to reside your
  profession was not known. The retail merchant went to the wholesale
  house and made his selections there. I appreciate the fact that those
  who successfully pursue your calling must, in the nature of things,
  be masters of the business in which you are engaged and possess great
  adaptability and a high order of intelligence.

  I thank you again for this visit; and give you in return my most
  sincere respect and regard. [Applause.] I regret that there is not
  room enough here for your comfort [a voice: "There will be more room
  in the White House!" Another: "We will take your order now and deliver
  the goods in November!"], but I shall be glad if any or all of you
  will remain for a better acquaintance and less formal intercourse.
  [Great applause and rousing cheers for the next President.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 9.


The first of many delegations from other States arrived July 9, from
the city of Benton Harbor, Mich., and included many ladies. The leading
members were F. R. Gilson, Ambrose H. Rowe, Wm. S. Farmer, G. M.
Valentines, W. B. Shanklin, E. M. Elick, A. J. Kidd, C. C. Sweet, O. B.
Hipp, R. M. Jones, W. L. Hogan, James McDonald, Allen Brunson, Frank
Melton, P. W. Hall, Geo. W. Platt, W. L. McClure, J. C. Purrill, E. H.
Kelly, J. A. Crawford, M. J. Vincent, Dr. Boston, M. G. Kennedy, and
Dr. J. Bell. General L. M. Ward was spokesman for the visitors. General
Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--This visit is exceptional in some of its features.
  Already, in the brief time since my nomination, I have received
  various delegations, but this is the first delegation that has
  visited me from outside the borders of my own State. Your visit is
  also exceptional and very gratifying in that you have brought with
  you the ladies of your families to grace the occasion and to honor me
  by their presence. I am glad to know that while the result of the
  convention at Chicago brought disappointment to you, it has not left
  any sores that need the ointment of time for their healing. Your own
  favored citizen, distinguished civilian, and brave soldier, General
  Alger, was among the first and among the most cordial to extend to me
  his congratulations and the assurance of his earnest support in the
  campaign. I am sure it cannot be otherwise than that the Republicans
  of Michigan will take a deep interest in this campaign; an interest
  that altogether oversteps all personal attachments. Your State has
  been proudly associated with the past successes of the Republican
  party, and your interests are now closely identified with its success
  in the pending campaign. I am sure, therefore, that I may accept your
  presence here to-night not only as a personal compliment, but as a
  pledge that Michigan will be true again to those great principles of
  government which are represented by the Republican party. We cherish
  the history of our party and are proud of its high achievements; they
  stir the enthusiasm of the young and crown those who were early in its
  ranks with well-deserved laurels. The success of the Republican party
  has always been identified with the glory of the flag and the unity of
  the Government. There has been nothing in the history or principles
  of our party out of line with revolutionary memories or with the
  enlightened statesmanship of the framers of our Constitution. Those
  principles are greater than men, lasting as truth, and sure of final
  vindication and triumph. Let me thank you again for your visit, and
  ask introduction to each of you.




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 12.


General Harrison received four delegations this day. The first was a
committee of veterans from John A. Logan Post, No. 99, G. A. R., of
North Manchester, Wabash County, who came to invite the General to
attend a soldiers' reunion for Northern Indiana. The committee comprised
Shelby Sexton, Senior Vice-Commander Indiana G. A. R.; John Elwood, Geo.
Lawrence, J. A. Brown, W. E. Thomas, I. D. Springdon, J. C. Hubbard, J.
M. Jennings, E. A. Ebbinghous, L. J. Noftzger, and S. V. Hopkins. Rev.
R. J. Parrott delivered the address of invitation. General Harrison
responded:

  _Comrades and Gentlemen_--Your request is one that appeals to me
  very strongly, and if it were single I should very promptly accede
  to it, but, without being told, you will readily understand that
  invitations of a kindred nature are coming to me every day, presented
  by individual comrades and committees, but more frequently by written
  communications.

  I have felt that if I opened a door in this direction it would be
  a very wide one, and I would either subject myself to the criticism
  of having favored particular localities or particular organizations,
  to the neglect of others having equal claims upon me, or that I
  should be compelled to give to this pleasant duty--as it would be if
  other duties did not crowd me--too much of my time. I am, therefore,
  compelled to say to you that it will be impossible for me to accept
  your invitation. But in doing this, I want to thank you for the
  interest you have shown in my presence with you, and I want especially
  to thank you for the spirit of comradeship which brings you here. I am
  glad to know--and I have many manifestations of it--that the peculiar
  position in which I am placed as a candidate of a political party
  does not separate me from the cordial friendship and comradeship of
  those who differ with me politically. I should greatly regret it if
  it should be so. We held our opinions and fought for them when the
  war was on, and we will hold them now in affectionate comradeship and
  mutual respect. I thank you for your visit.

The second delegation also came from Wabash County and was under the
leadership of William Hazen, Warren Bigler, James P. Ross, James E.
Still, Robert Weesner, John Rodgers, Job Ridgway, and Joseph Ridgway,
aged 83, of Wabash City. Their spokesman was Mr. Cowgill. General
Harrison, responding, said:

  _Mr. Cowgill and my Wabash County Friends_--In 1860 I was first
  a candidate before a convention for nomination to a public office.
  Possibly some of those who are here to-day were in that convention.
  Wabash County presented in the person of my friend, and afterwards
  my comrade, Col. Charles Parrish, a candidate for the office which I
  also sought, that of Reporter of Decisions of the Supreme Court of the
  State of Indiana. We had a friendly yet earnest contest before the
  convention, in which I succeeded. A little later in the campaign, as I
  was attempting to render to my party the services which my nomination
  seemed to imply, I visited your good county and received at your hands
  a welcome so demonstrative and cordial that I have always had a warm
  place in my heart for your people. I was then almost a boy in years,
  and altogether a boy in public life. Since then, in campaigns in which
  I have had a personal interest, and in very many more wherein I had
  only the general interest that you all had, it has been my pleasure
  to visit your county, and I can testify to the earnest, intelligent
  and devoted republicanism of Wabash County. You have never faltered
  in any of the great struggles in which the party has engaged; and I
  believe you have followed your party from a high conviction that the
  purposes it set before us involved the best interests of the country
  that you love, and to which you owe the duty of citizens. I know how
  generously you contributed to the army when your sons were called
  to defend it; and I know how, since the war, you have endeavored to
  preserve and to conserve those results which you fought for, and
  which made us again one people, acknowledging, and I hope loving, one
  flag and one Constitution. [Applause.] I want to thank you personally
  for this visit, and I wish now, if it is your pleasure, to meet you
  individually.

Benton County, Indiana, contributed the third delegation of the day, led
by H. S. Travis, Clark Cook, B. Johnson, Henry Taylor, Frank Knapp, and
Robert L. Cox of Fowler. They were presented by Col. A. D. Streight.
General Harrison said:

  _Colonel Streight, Fellow-citizens, and Comrades_--I am very
  grateful to you for this visit, and for the cordial terms in which
  your spokesman has extended to me the congratulations of my friends
  of Benton County. We have men who boast that they are cosmopolitans,
  citizens of the world. I prefer to say that I am an American
  citizen [applause], and I freely confess that American interests
  have the first place in my regard. [Applause.] This is not at all
  inconsistent with the recognition of that comity between nations
  which is necessary to the peace of the world. It is not inconsistent
  with that philanthropy which sympathizes with human distress and
  oppression the world around. We have been especially favored as an
  apart nation, separated from the conflicts, jealousies, and intrigues
  of European courts, with a territory embracing every feature of
  climate and soil, and resources capable of supplying the wants of our
  people, of developing a wholesome and gigantic national growth, and
  of spreading abroad, by their full establishment here, the principles
  of human liberty and free government. I do not think it inconsistent
  with the philanthropy of the broadest teacher of human love that
  we should first have regard for that family of which we are a part.
  Here in Indiana the drill has just disclosed to us the presence of
  inexhaustible quantities, in a large area of our State, of that new
  fuel which has the facility of doing its own transportation, even to
  the furnace door, and which leaves no residuum to be carried away
  when it has done its work. This discovery has added an impulse to our
  growth. It has attracted manufacturing industries from other States.
  Many of our towns have received, and this city, we may hope, is yet
  to receive, a great impulse in the development of their manufacturing
  industries by reason of this discovery. It seems to me that when this
  fuller development of our manufacturing interests, this building up of
  a home market for the products of our farms, which is sure to produce
  here that which has been so obvious elsewhere--a great increase in
  the value of farms and farm products--is opening to us the pleasant
  prospect of a rapid growth in wealth, we should be slow to abandon
  that system of protective duties which looks to the promotion and
  development of American industry and to the preservation of the
  highest possible scale of wages for the American workman. [Applause.]
  The development of our country must be on those lines that benefit
  all our people. Any development that does not reach and beneficially
  affect all our people is not to be desired, and cannot be progressive
  or permanent.

  Comrades, you still love the flag for which we fought. We are
  preserved in God's providence to see the wondrous results of that
  struggle in which you were engaged--a reunited country, a Constitution
  whose authority is no longer disputed, a flag to which all men bow. It
  has won respect at home; it should be respected by all nations of the
  earth as an emblem and representative of a people desiring peace with
  all men, but resolute in the determination that the rights of all our
  citizens the world around shall be faithfully respected. [Applause and
  cries of "That's right!"] I thank you again for this visit, and, if it
  be your pleasure, and your committee will so arrange, I will be glad
  to take you by the hand.

The fourth and largest delegation of the day came from Boone County,
numbering more than two thousand, led by Captain Brown, S. S. Heath, A.
L. Howard, W. H. H. Martin, D. A. Rice, James Williamson, E. G. Darnell,
D. H. Olive, and Captain Arbigas of Lebanon, the last-named veteran
totally blind.

Another contingent was commanded by David O. Mason, J. O. Hurst, J. N.
Harmon, and Mr. Denny, an octogenarian, all of Zionsville. Dr. D. C.
Scull was orator for the visitors. General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--The magnitude of this demonstration puts us at a
  disadvantage in our purpose to entertain you hospitably, as we had
  designed when notified of your coming. [Cheers.] I regret that you
  must stand exposed to the heat of the sun, and that I must be at the
  disadvantage of speaking from this high balcony a few words of hearty
  thanks. I hope it may be arranged by the committee so that I may yet
  have the opportunity of speaking to you informally and individually.
  I am glad to notice your quick interest in the campaign. I am sure
  that that interest is stimulated by your devotion to the principles of
  government which you conceive--rightly, as I believe--to be involved
  in this campaign. [Applause.] I am glad to think that some of you,
  veterans of a former political campaign to which your chairman has
  alluded, and others of you, comrades in the great war for the Union,
  come here to express some personal friendship for me. [Cheers.] But
  I am sure that this campaign will be waged upon a plan altogether
  above personal consideration. You are here as citizens of the State
  of Indiana, proud of the great advancement the State has made since
  those pioneer days when brave men from the East and South entered our
  territory, blazing a pathway into the unbroken forest, upon which
  civilization, intelligence, patriotism, and the love of God has walked
  until we are conspicuous among the States as a community desirous of
  social order, full of patriotic zeal, and pledged to the promotion of
  that education which is to qualify the coming generations to discharge
  honorably and well their duties to the Government which we will leave
  in their hands. [Applause.] You are here also as citizens of the
  United States, proud of that arch of strength that binds together
  the States of this Union in one great Nation. But citizenship has
  its duties as well as its privileges. The first is that we give our
  energies and influence to the enactment of just, equal, and beneficent
  laws. The second is like unto it--that we loyally reverence and
  obey the will of the majority enacted into law, whether we are of a
  majority or not [applause]; the law throws the ægis of its protection
  over us all. It stands sentinel about your country homes to protect
  you from violence; it comes into our more thickly populated community
  and speaks its mandate for individual security and public order.
  There is an open avenue through the ballot-box for the modification
  or repeal of laws which are unjust or oppressive. To the law we bow
  with reverence. It is the one king that commands our allegiance. We
  will change our king, when his rule is oppressive, by these methods
  appointed, and crown his more liberal successor. [Applause.] I thank
  you again, most cordially, for this visit, and put myself in the
  hands of your committee that I may have the privilege of meeting you
  individually.




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 13.


One thousand employees of the various railroads centreing at
Indianapolis, organized as a Harrison and Morton Club--J. C. Finch,
President, and A. D. Shaw, Marshal of the occasion--called on General
Harrison on the night of July 13. Yardmaster Shaw was spokesman. General
Harrison replied:

  _Gentlemen_--Your visit is very gratifying to me, and is full
  of significance and interest. If I read aright the language of
  your lanterns you have signalled the Republican train to go ahead.
  [Applause and cries of "And she is going, too!"] You have concluded
  that it is freighted with the interests and hopes of the workingmen of
  America, and must have the right of way. [Cheers and cries, "That's
  true!" and "We don't have to take water on this trip, either!"]
  The train has been inspected; you have given it your skilled and
  intelligent approval; the track has been cleared and the switches
  spiked down. Have I read your signals aright? [Cheers and cries of
  "You have!" and "There's no flat wheels under this train!"] You
  represent, I understand, every department of railroad labor--the
  office, the train, the shop, the yard, and the road. You are the
  responsible and intelligent agents of a vast system that, from a
  rude and clumsy beginning, has grown to be as fine and well adapted
  as the parts of the latest locomotive engine. The necessities and
  responsibilities of the business of transportation have demanded a
  body of picked men--inventive and skilful, faithful and courageous,
  sober and educated--and the call has been answered, as your presence
  here to night demonstrates. [Cheers.] Heroism has been found at the
  throttle and the brake, as well as on the battle-field, and as well
  worthy of song and marble. The trainman crushed between the platforms,
  who used his last breath, not for prayer or message of love, but to
  say to the panic-stricken who gathered around him, "Put out the red
  light for the other train," inscribed his name very high upon the
  shaft where the names of the faithful and brave are written. [A voice:
  "Give him three cheers for that!" Great and enthusiastic cheering.]

  This early and very large gathering of Republican railroad men
  suggests to me that you have opinions upon public questions which are
  the product of your own observations and study. Some one will say that
  the railroad business is a "non-protected industry," because it has
  to do with transportation and not with production. But I only suggest
  what has already occurred to your own minds when I say that is a very
  deceptive statement. You know there is a relation between the wages
  of skilled and unskilled labor as truly as between the prices of two
  grades of cotton cloth; that if the first is cut down, the other, too,
  must come down. [Cries of "That's just so!"] You know, also, that if
  labor is thrown out of one line or avenue, by so much the more will
  the others be crowded; that any policy that transfers production from
  the American to the English or German shop works an injury to all
  American workmen. [Great cheering.]

  But, if it could be shown that your wages were unaffected by our
  system of protective duties, I am sure that your fellowship with your
  fellow toilers in other industries would lead you to desire, as I do
  and always have, that our legislation may be of that sort that will
  secure to them the highest possible prosperity [applause]--wages that
  not only supply the necessities of life, but leave a substantial
  margin for comfort and for the savings bank. No man's wages should
  be so low that he cannot make provision in his days of vigor for the
  incapacity of accident or the feebleness of old age. [Great cheering.]

  I am glad to be assured to-night that the principles of our party
  and all things affecting its candidates can be safely left to the
  thoughtful consideration of the American workingmen--they will know
  the truth and accept it; they will reject the false and slanderous.
  [Applause.]

  And now let me say in conclusion that my door will always be open
  to any of you who may desire to talk with me about anything that
  interests you or that you think will interest me. I regret that Mrs.
  Harrison is prevented by a temporary sickness from joining with me in
  receiving you this evening. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 14.


A notable visit was that of two hundred and twenty members of the
Lincoln Club, one of the most influential political organizations of
Cincinnati. They were escorted by the First Regiment Band and led
by their President, Hon. A. C. Horton, with Col. James I. Quinton,
Marshal of the day. Among other prominent members in line were Col. Leo
Markbreit, Senator Richardson, Dr. M. M. Eaton, Hon. Fred Pfeister, W.
E. Hutton, Samuel Baily, Jr., Albert Mitchell, H. M. Zeigler, B. O. M.
De Beck, W. T. Porter, Harry Probasco, John Ferinbatch, Geo. B. Fox, J.
E. Strubbe, Dr. S. V. Wiseman, Joseph H. Thornton, C. H. Rockwell, Lewis
Wesner and Col. Moore. Hon. Drusin Wulsin, Vice-President of the club,
was the orator. General Harrison, who had been ill for two days, replied:

  _Mr. Wulsin and Gentlemen of the Lincoln Club of Cincinnati_--I
  thank you very much for this visit, and I wish I found myself in
  condition to talk to you with comfort to-night. I cannot, however,
  let the occasion pass, in view of the kind terms in which you have
  addressed me through your spokesman, without a word. I feel as if
  these Hamilton County Republicans were my neighbors. The associations
  of my early life were with that county, and of my student life largely
  with the city of Cincinnati. You did not need to state to me that Ohio
  supported John Sherman in the convention at Chicago [laughter] simply
  to couple with it the suggestion that it was a matter of State pride
  for you to do so. I have known him long and intimately. It was my good
  fortune for four years to sit beside him in the Senate of the United
  States. I learned there to value him as a friend and to honor him as
  a statesman. There were reasons altogether wider than the State of
  Ohio why you should support John Sherman in the convention. [Applause
  and cries of "Good!" "Good!"] His long and faithful service to his
  country and to the Republican party, his distinguished ability, his
  fidelity as a citizen, all entitled him to your faithful support; and
  I beg to assure you, as I have assured him both before and since the
  convention, that I did not and would not, upon any consideration, have
  made any attempt against him upon the Ohio delegation. [Applause.]
  I have known of your club as an organization that early set the
  example of perpetuating itself--an example that I rejoice to see is
  being largely followed now throughout our country. If these principles
  which are being urged by our party in these contests are worthy of our
  campaign enthusiasm and ardor, they are worthy to be thought of and
  advocated in the period of inter-campaign. They affect the business
  interests of our country, and their full adoption and perpetuation,
  we believe, will bring prosperity to all our individual and social
  and community interests. Therefore, I think it wise that in those
  times, when men's minds are more open to conviction and are readier of
  access, you should press upon the attention of your neighbors through
  your club organizations these principles to which you and I have given
  the allegiance of our minds and the devotion of our hearts. I thank
  you again for this visit. We are glad that you have come; therefore, I
  welcome you, not only as Republicans, but as friends. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 18.


Howard County sent a delegation of six hundred citizens this day, led
by Major A. N. Grant. The Lincoln League Club of Kokomo was commanded
by its President, John E. Moore. Other prominent citizens in the
delegation were Hon. J. N. Loop, J. A. Kautz, J. E. Vaile, John Ingalls,
W. E. Blackledge, B. B. Johnson, J. B. Landen, Dr. James Wright, H.
E. McMonigal, Edward Klum, Charles Pickett, and A. R. Ellis. Rev.
Father Rayburn, a voter in the campaign of 1840, was spokesman. General
Harrison, in reply, said:

  _Father Rayburn and my Howard County Friends_--I think I may accept
  this demonstration as evidence that the action of the Republican
  convention at Chicago has been accepted with resignation by the
  Republicans of Howard County. [Loud cheers.] You are the favored
  citizens of a favored county. Your county has been conspicuous among
  the counties of this State for its enterprise and intelligence. You
  have been favored with a kindly and generous soil, cultivated by an
  intelligent and educated class of farmers. Hitherto you have chiefly
  drawn your wealth from the soil. You have had in the city of Kokomo
  an enterprising and thrifty county town. You have been conspicuous
  for your interest and devotion to the cause of education--for your
  interest in bringing forward the coming generations well equipped for
  the duties of citizenship. I congratulate you to-day that a new era of
  prosperity has opened for your county in the discovery of this new and
  free fuel to which Mr. Rayburn has alluded. A source of great wealth
  has been opened to your people. You have already begun to realize what
  it is to your county, though your expectations have hardly grasped
  what it will be when the city of Kokomo and your other towns have
  reached the full development which will follow this discovery. You
  will then all realize--the citizens of that prosperous place as well
  as the farmers throughout the county--the advantage of having a home
  market for the products of your farms. [Cheers.] You may not notice
  this so much in the appreciation of the prices of the staple products
  of your farms, but you will notice it in the expansion of the market
  for those more perishable products which cannot reach a distant market
  and must be consumed near home. Is it not, then, time for you, as
  thoughtful citizens, whatever your previous political affiliations
  may have been, to consider the question, "What legislation will most
  promote the development of the manufacturing interests of your county
  and enlarge the home market for the products of your farm?" I shall
  not enter upon a discussion of this question; it is enough to state
  it, and leave it to your own intelligent consideration. [Cheers.]

  Let me thank you again for this kindly visit, and beg you to excuse
  any more extended remarks, and to give me now an opportunity of
  thanking each of you personally for the kind things your chairman has
  said in your behalf.




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 19.


Illinois sent three large delegations this date from Springfield,
Jacksonville and Monticello. Conspicuous in the column was the famous
"Black Eagle" Club of Springfield, led by its President, Sam H. Jones,
and the Lincoln Club, commanded by Capt. John C. Cook.

In the Springfield delegation were twenty-one original Whigs who
voted for Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison, among them Jeriah Bonham, who
wrote the first editorial--Nov. 8, 1858--proposing the candidacy of
Abraham Lincoln for President. Others among the prominent visitors
from Springfield were: Col. James T. King, C. A. Vaughan, Major James
A. Connelly, Paul Selby, Hon. David T. Littler, Jacob Wheeler, Gen.
Charles W. Pavey, Robert J. Oglesby, Ira Knight, C. P. Baldwin, James H.
Kellogg, Alexander Smith, Geo. Jameson, Augustus C. Ayers, Jacob Strong,
Dr. F. C. Winslow, Fred Smith, Charles T. Hawks, Hon. Henry Dement, Col.
Theo. Ewert, Jacob Bunn, J. C. Matthews, J. R. Stewart, H. W. Beecher,
Andrew J. Lester, Dr. Gurney, and Howes Yates, brother of the great war
Governor.

The Jacksonville visitors were represented by Hon. Fred H. Rowe,
ex-Mayor Tomlinson, Judge T. B. Orear, J. B. Stevenson, Dr. Goodrich,
Professor Parr of Illinois College, J. W. Davenport, and Thomas Rapp.

Attorney-General Hunt spoke on behalf of all the visitors. General
Harrison's reply was one of his happiest speeches. He said:

  _General Hunt and my Illinois Friends_--I thank you for this cordial
  expression of your interest in Republican success. I thank you for the
  kindly terms in which your spokesman has conveyed to me the assurance,
  not only of your political support, but of your personal confidence
  and respect.

  The States of Indiana and Illinois are neighbors, geographically.
  The river that for a portion of its length constitutes the boundary
  between our States is not a river of division. Its tendency seems
  to be, in these times when so many things are "going dry" [cheers],
  rather to obliterate than to enlarge the obstruction between us.
  [Cheers.] But I rejoice to know that we are not only geographically
  neighbors, but that Indiana and Illinois have been neighborly in the
  high sentiments and purposes which have characterized their people.
  I rejoice to know that the same high spirit of loyalty and devotion
  to the country that characterized the State of Illinois in the time
  when the Nation made its appeal to the brave men of all the States to
  rescue its flag and its Constitution from the insurrection which had
  been raised against them was equally characteristic of Indiana--that
  the same great impulse swept over your State that swept over
  ours--that Richard Yates of Illinois [cheers] and Oliver P. Morton of
  Indiana [prolonged cheers] stood together in the fullest sympathy and
  co-operation in the great plans they devised to augment and re-enforce
  the Union armies in the field and to suppress and put down treasonable
  conspiracies at home.

  As Americans and as Republicans we are glad that Illinois has
  contributed so many and such conspicuous names to that galaxy of
  great Americans and great Republicans whose deeds have been written
  on the scroll of eternal fame. I recall that it was on the soil of
  Illinois that Lovejoy died--a martyr to free speech. [Cries of "Hear!"
  "Hear!"] He was the forerunner of Abraham Lincoln. He died, but his
  protest against human slavery lived. Another great epoch in the march
  of liberty found on the soil of Illinois the theatre of its most
  influential event. I refer to that high debate in the presence of your
  people, but before the world, in which Douglas won the senatorship and
  Lincoln the presidency and immortal fame. [Loud cheers.]

  But Lincoln's argument and Lincoln's proclamation must be made good
  upon the battle-field--and again your State was conspicuous. You gave
  us Grant and Logan [prolonged cheers] and a multitude of less notable,
  but not less faithful, soldiers who underwrote the proclamation with
  their swords. [Cheers.] I congratulate you to-day that there has
  come out of this early agitation--out of the work of Lovejoy, the
  disturber; out of the great debate of 1858, and out of the war for
  the Union, a Nation without a slave [cheers]--that not the shackles
  of slavery only have been broken, but that the scarcely less cruel
  shackles of prejudice which bound every black man in the North have
  also been unbound.

  We are glad to know that the enlightened sentiment of the South
  to-day unites with us in our congratulations that slavery has been
  abolished. They have come to realize, and many of their best and
  greatest men to publicly express, the thought that the abolition of
  slavery has opened a gateway of progress and material development to
  the South that was forever closed against her people while domestic
  slavery existed.

  We send them the assurance that we desire the streams of their
  prosperity shall flow bank full. We would lay upon their people no
  burdens that we do not willingly bear ourselves. They will not think
  it amiss if I say that the burden which rests willingly upon our
  shoulders is a faithful obedience to the Constitution and the laws.
  A manly assertion by each of his individual rights, and a manly
  concession of equal right to every other man, is the boast and the law
  of good citizenship.

  Let me thank you again and ask you to excuse me from further
  public speech. I now ask an opportunity to meet my Illinois friends
  personally [Loud and prolonged cheers.]

The second speech of the day was delivered at 9 o'clock at night to an
enthusiastic delegation of fifteen hundred Republicans from Shelbyville,
Shelby County, led by Hon. H. C. Gordon, J. Walter Elliott, C. H.
Campbell, James T. Caughey, C. X. Matthews, J. Richey, E. S. Powell,
E. E. Elliott, L. S. Limpus, Orland Young, and Norris Winterowd. Judge
J. C. Adams was their spokesman. General Harrison touched upon civil
service; he said:

  _Judge Adams and my Shelby County Friends_--This is only a new
  evidence of your old friendliness. My association with the Republicans
  of Shelby County began in 1855, when I was a very young man and
  a still younger politician. In that year, if I recollect right,
  I canvassed every township of your county in the interest of Mr.
  Campbell, who was then a candidate for County Clerk. Since then I have
  frequently visited your county, and have always been received with the
  most demonstrative evidence of your friendship. But in addition to
  these political associations, which have given me an opportunity to
  observe and to admire the steadfastness, the courage, the unflinching
  faithfulness of the Republicans of Shelby County [cheers], I have
  another association with your county, which I cherish with great
  tenderness and affection. Two companies of the Seventieth Indiana were
  made up of your brave boys: Company B, commanded by Captain Sleeth,
  and Company F, commanded by Captain Endsley, who still lives among
  you. [Cheers.] Many of the surviving members of these companies still
  dwell among you. Many others are in the far West, and they, too, from
  their distant homes have sent me a comrade's greeting. I recollect
  a little story of Peach Tree Creek that may interest you. When the
  Seventieth Indiana, then under command of Col. Sam Merrill, swung
  up from the reserve into the front line to meet the enemy's charge,
  the adjutant-general of the brigade, who had been directed to order
  the advance, reported that the left of the Seventieth Indiana was
  exposed. He said he had ordered the bluff old captain of Company F,
  who was commanding the left wing, to reserve his left in order to
  cover his flank, but that the old hickory had answered him with an
  expletive--which I have no doubt he has repented of--that he "could
  not see it," that he proposed that his end of the regiment should get
  to the top of that hill as quick as the other end. [Prolonged cheers.]

  We will venerate the memory of the dead of these companies and their
  associate companies in other commands who gave up their lives in
  defence of the flag.

  But I turn aside from these matters of personal recollection to
  say a word of more general concern. We are now at the opening of a
  presidential campaign, and I beg to suggest to you, as citizens of
  the State of Indiana, that there is always in such campaigns a danger
  to be avoided, viz. That the citizen may overlook the important
  local and State interests which are also involved in the campaign. I
  beg, therefore, to suggest that you turn your minds not only to the
  consideration of the questions connected with the national legislation
  and national administration, but that you think deeply and well of
  those things that concern our local affairs. There are some such now
  presented to you that have to do with the honor and prosperity of the
  State.

  There are some questions that ought not to divide parties, but
  upon which all good men ought to agree. I speak of only one.
  The great benevolent institutions--the fruit of our Christian
  civilization--endowed by the bounty of the State, maintained by public
  taxes, and intended for the care and education of the disabled classes
  of our community, ought to be lifted above all party influences,
  benefit or control. [Cheers.] I believe you can do nothing that will
  more greatly enhance the estimation in which the State of Indiana
  is held by her sister States than to see to it that a suitable,
  well-regulated, and strict civil service is provided for the
  administration of the benevolent and penal institutions of the State
  of Indiana. I will not talk longer; I thank you for this magnificent
  evidence that I am still held in kindly regard by the Republicans of
  Shelby County, and bid you good-night. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 24.


On the twenty-fourth of July Champaign County, Illinois, contributed a
large delegation under the direction of Hon. F. K. Robeson, Z. Riley,
H. W. Mahan, and W. M. Whindley. Their parade was conspicuous for the
number of log-cabins, cider-barrels, coons, eagles, and other campaign
emblems.

Prominent members of the delegation were Rev. I. S. Mahan, H. M.
Dunlap, F. M. McKay, J. J. McClain, James Barnes, Rev. John Henry, H.
S. Clark, M. S. Goodrich, A. W. McNichols, Capt. J. H. Sands and three
veterans of 1836, the Rev. S. K. Reed, Stephen Freeman, and W. B.
Downing. Hon. Frank M. Wright delivered the address on behalf of the
visitors. General Harrison responded:

  _My Friends_--I feel very conscious of the compliment which is
  conveyed by your presence here to-day. You come as citizens of an
  adjoining State to manifest, as your spokesman has said, some personal
  respect for me, but much more, I think--your interest in the pending
  contention of principles before the people of the United States. It
  is fortunate that you are allowed, not only to express your interest
  by such popular gatherings as these, but that you will be called upon
  individually, after the debate is over, to settle this contention by
  your ballots. An American political canvass, when we look through the
  noise and tinsel that accompanies it, presents a scene of profound
  interest to the student of government. The theory upon which our
  Government is builded is that every qualified elector shall have an
  equal influence at the ballot-box with every other. Our Constitutions
  do not recognize fractional votes; they do not recognize the right
  of one man to count one and a half in the determination of public
  questions. It is wisely provided that whatever differences may exist
  in intelligence, in wealth, or in any other respect, at the ballot-box
  there shall be absolute equality. No interest can be truly subserved,
  whether local or general, by any invasion of this great principle.
  The wise work of our fathers in constructing this Government will
  stand all tests of internal dissension and revolution, and all tests
  of external assault, if we can only preserve a pure, free ballot.
  [Applause.] Every citizen who is a patriot ought to lend his influence
  to that end, by promoting necessary reforms in our election laws and
  by a watchful supervision of the processes of our popular elections.
  We ought to elevate in thought and practice the free suffrage that
  we enjoy. As long as it shall be held by our people to be the jewel
  above price, as long as each for himself shall claim its free exercise
  and shall generously and manfully insist upon an equally free
  exercise of it by every other man, our Government will be preserved
  and our development will not find its climax until the purpose of
  God in establishing this Government shall have spread throughout the
  world--governments "of the people, by the people, and for the people."
  [Cheers.]

  You will not expect, nor would it be proper, that I should follow
  the line of your spokesman's remarks, or even allude to some things
  that he has alluded to; but I will not close without one word of
  compliment and comradeship for the soldiers of Illinois. [Applause.]
  I do not forget that many of them, like Logan--that fearless and
  first of volunteer soldiers--at the beginning of the war were not
  in sympathy with the Republican national administration. You had a
  multitude of soldiers besides Logan, one of whom has been immortalized
  in poetry--Sergeant Tillman Joy--who put their politics by "to keep
  till the war was through;" and many, I may add, like Logan, when they
  got home found new party associations. But we do not limit our praise
  of the loyalty and faithfulness of your soldiers to any party lines,
  for we realize that there were good soldiers who did resume their
  ante-war politics when they came back from the army. To such we extend
  a comrade's hand always, and the free and untrammelled exercise of his
  political choice shall not bar our comradeship. It happened during the
  war that three Illinois regiments were for some time under my command.
  I had opportunity to observe their perfection in drill, their orderly
  administration of camp duties, and, above all, the brilliant courage
  with which they met the enemy. And, in complimenting them, I take
  them as the type of that great army that Illinois sent out for the
  preservation of the Union and the Constitution. Let me thank you again
  for your friendly visit to-day; and if any of you desire a nearer
  acquaintance, I shall be glad to make that acquaintance now.




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 25.


Two thousand visitors from Edgar and Coles counties, Illinois, paid
their respects to the Republican nominee this day.

The excursion was under the auspices of the John A. Logan Club of Paris,
Charles P. Fitch, President. There were many farmers in the delegation,
also eighty-two veterans of the campaign of 1840, and the watchwords
of the day were "Old Tippecanoe and young Tippecanoe." The reception
took place at University Park, notable from this time forward for many
similar events. Prominent among the visitors were Geo. F. Howard, Capt.
F. M. Rude, J. W. Howell, E. R. Lodge, Capt. J. C. Bessier, M. Hackett,
James Stewart, and Mayor J. M. Bell of Paris; C. G. Peck and J. H. Clark
of Mattoon; and Hon. John W. Custor of Benton. State Senator George E.
Bacon delivered the congratulatory address. General Harrison replied:

  _Senator Bacon and my Illinois Friends_--Some of my home friends
  have been concerned lest I should be worn out by the frequent coming
  of these delegations. I am satisfied from what I see before me
  to-day that the rest of Illinois is here [laughter], and the concern
  of my friends will no longer be excited by the coming of Illinois
  delegations. [A voice, "We are all here!"] That you should leave the
  pursuits of your daily life--the farm, the office, and the shop--to
  make this journey gives me the most satisfactory evidence that your
  hearts are enlisted in this campaign. I am glad to welcome here to-day
  the John A. Logan Club of Paris. You have chosen a name that you will
  not need to drop, whatever mutations may come in politics, so long as
  there shall be a party devoted to the flag and to the Constitution,
  and pledged to preserve the memories of the great deeds of those who
  died that the Constitution might be preserved and the flag honored.
  [Applause.] General Logan was indeed, as your spokesman has said, "the
  typical volunteer soldier." With him loyalty was not a sentiment; it
  was a passion that possessed his whole nature.

  When the civil war broke out no one did more than he to solidify
  the North in defence of the Government. He it was who said that all
  parties and all platforms must be subordinated to the defence of the
  Government against unprovoked assault. [A voice, "That's just what
  he said!"] In the war with Mexico, as a member of the First Illinois
  Regiment, and afterwards as the commander of the Thirty-first Illinois
  in the civil war, he gave a conspicuous example of what an untrained
  citizen could do in the time of public peril. In the early fight at
  Donelson he, with the First Illinois Brigade, successfully resisted
  the desperate assaults that were made upon his line; twice wounded, he
  yet refused to leave the field. The courage of that gallant brigade
  called forth from a Massachusetts poet the familiar lines:

          "Thy proudest mother's eyelids fill,
            As dares her gallant boy,
          And Plymouth Rock and Bunker Hill
            Yearn to thee, Illinois."

  [Applause.] He commanded successively brigades, divisions, corps
  and armies, and fought them with unvarying success. I greet these
  veterans of the campaign of 1840. You recall the pioneer days, the
  log cabin days of the West, the days when muddy highways were the
  only avenues of travel and commerce. You have seen a marvellous
  development. The State of your adoption has become a mighty
  commonwealth; you have seen it crossed and recrossed by railroads,
  bringing all your farms into easy communication with distant
  markets; you have seen the schoolhouse and church brought into every
  neighborhood; you have seen this country rocked in the cradle of war;
  you have seen it emerge from that dreadful trial and enter upon an era
  of prosperity that seems to surpass all that had gone before.

  To these young men who will, for the first time this year, take part
  as citizens in determining a presidential election, I suggest that
  you have become members of a party of precious memories. There has
  been nothing in the history of the Republican party, nothing in the
  platform of principles that it has proclaimed, that is not calculated
  to stir the high impulses of your young hearts. The Republican party
  has walked upon high paths. It has set before it ever the maintenance
  of the Union, the honor of its flag, and the prosperity of our people.
  It has been an American party [great cheering] in that it has set
  American interests always to the front.

  My friends of the colored organization, I greet you as Republicans
  to-day. I recall the time when you were disfranchised; when your race
  were slaves; when the doors of our institutions of learning were
  closed against you, and even admittance to many of our Northern States
  was denied you. You have read the story of your disfranchisement, of
  the restoration to you of the common rights of men. Read it again;
  read the story of the bitter and bigoted opposition that every statute
  and constitutional amendment framed for your benefit encountered. What
  party befriended you when you needed friends? What party has stood
  always as an obstruction to the development and enlargement of your
  rights as citizens? When you have studied these questions well you
  will be able to determine not only where your gratitude is due, but
  where the hopes of your race lie. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 26.


From Clay County, Indiana, came three thousand coal-miners and others,
this day, under the auspices of the Harrison Miners' Club of Brazil.
Their parade, with dozens of unique banners and devices, was one of
the most imposing of the campaign. Prominent in the delegation were
Dr. Joseph C. Gifford, L. A. Wolfe, Jacob Herr, P. H. Penna, John F.
Perry, C. P. Eppert, E. C. Callihan, W. H. Lowery, Rev. John Cox, A. F.
Bridges, William Sporr, Carl Thomas, Geo. F. Fuller, John Gibbons, Sam'l
Blair, Thomas Washington, and Judge Coffey of Brazil. Major William
Carter and Edward Wilton, a miner, delivered addresses; Rob't L. McCowan
spoke for the colored members of the delegation. General Harrison, in
response, said:

  _Gentlemen and Friends from Clay County_--I thank you for this
  enthusiastic demonstration of your interest. I am glad to be assured
  by those who have spoken for you to-day that you have brought here,
  and desire to evidence, some personal respect for me; but this
  demonstration has relation, I am sure, rather to principles than to
  men. You come as representatives of the diversified interests of
  your county. You are fortunate in already possessing diversified
  industries. You have not only agriculture, but the mine and factory
  which provide a home market for the products of your farms. You come
  here, as I understand, from all these pursuits, to declare that in
  your opinion your interests, as farmers, as miners, as mechanics,
  as tradesmen, are identified with the maintenance of the doctrine
  of protection to American industries, and the preservation of the
  American market for American products. [Cheers.] Some resort to
  statistics to show that the condition of the American workman is
  better than that of the workman of any other country. I do not care
  now to deal with statistics. One fact is enough for me. The tide of
  emigration from all European countries has been and is towards our
  shores. The gates of Castle Garden swing inward. They do not swing
  outward to any American laborer seeking a better country than this.
  [Cries of "Never!"]

  My countrymen, these men, who have toiled at wages in other lands
  that barely sustained life, and opened no avenue of promise to them or
  to their children, know the good land of hope as well as the swallow
  knows the land of summer. [Applause.] They testify that here there
  are better conditions, wider and more hopeful prospects for workmen
  than in any other land. The next suggestion I have to make is this:
  that the more work there is to do in this country the higher the
  wages that will be paid for the doing of it. [Applause.] I speak to
  men who know that when the product of their toil is in demand in the
  market, when buyers are seeking it, wages advance; but when the market
  for your products is depressed, and the manufacturer is begging for
  buyers, then wages go down. Is it not clear, then, that that policy
  which secures the largest amount of work to be done at home is the
  policy which will secure to laboring men steady employment and the
  best wages? [Cheers and cries of "That is right!"] A policy which will
  transfer work from our mines and our factories to foreign mines and
  foreign factories inevitably tends to the depression of wages here.
  [Applause and cries of "That is true!"] These are truths that do not
  require profound study.

  Having here a land that throws about the workingman social and
  political conditions more favorable than are found elsewhere, if we
  can preserve also more favorable industrial conditions we shall secure
  the highest interests of our working classes. [Great cheering.] What,
  after all, is the best evidence of a nation's prosperity, and the
  best guarantee of social order, if it is not an intelligent, thrifty,
  contented working class? Can we look for contentment if the workman
  is only able to supply his daily necessities by his daily toil, but
  is not able in the vigor of youth to lay up a store against old age?
  A condition of things that compels the laborer to contemplate want,
  as an incident of sickness or disability, is one that tends to social
  disorder. [Applause and cries of "That is so!"] You are called upon
  now to consider these problems. I will not debate them in detail,
  others will. I can only commend them to your thoughtful consideration.
  Think upon them; conclude for yourselves what policy as to our tariff
  legislation will best subserve your interests, the interests of your
  families, and the greatness and glory of the Nation of which you are
  citizens. [Cheers.]

  My colored friends who are here to-day, the emancipation of the
  slave removed from our country that which tended to degrade labor. All
  men are now free; you are thrown upon your own resources; the avenues
  of intelligence and of business success are open to all. I notice
  that the party to which we belong has been recently reproached by the
  suggestion that we have not thoroughly protected the colored man in
  the South. This has been urged as a reason why the colored people
  should join the Democratic party. I beg the gentlemen who urge that
  plea to answer this question: Against whom is it that the Republican
  party has been unable, as you say, to protect your race? [Applause and
  cries of "Good! Good!"] Thanking you again for this demonstration and
  for your friendly expressions, I will, if it be your pleasure, drop
  this formal method of communication and take my Clay County friends by
  the hand. [Great cheering.]

The Clay County miners had not concluded their reception before a
delegation of several hundred arrived from Bloomington, Illinois,
headed by the John A. Logan Club, under the lead of General Geo. F.
Dick, William Maddox, John A. Fullwiller, M. B. Herr, and Dr. F. C.
Vandervoort. Their orator was Dr. W. H. H. Adams, formerly President of
the Illinois Wesleyan University. General Harrison, replying, said:

  _My Bloomington Friends_--When I received here, yesterday, a very
  large delegation from Illinois, I expressed the opinion that they
  must be the "rest of the people of Illinois that had not been here
  before." I suppose you are a remnant that could not get into line
  yesterday. I thank you as I have thanked those who preceded you, for
  the interest which the people of your State have manifested, and
  for your cordial fellowship with Indiana. I will not discuss the
  issues of the campaign. You have already thought upon the platforms
  of the two parties. Some of you have perhaps taken your politics by
  inheritance. It is now a good time to review the situation. We have
  the same interests as citizens. Let us all consider the history and
  declarations of the great parties and thoughtfully conclude which is
  more likely to promote the general interests of our people. That is
  the test. The British Parliament does not legislate with a view to
  advance the interests of the people of the United States. [Cries of
  "No, never!"] They--rightly--have in view the interest of that empire
  over which Victoria reigns. Should we not, also, as Americans, in our
  legislation, consider first the interests of our people? We invite
  the thoughtful attention of those who have hitherto differed with us
  as to these questions. Our interests are bound together. That which
  promotes the prosperity of the community in which you dwell in kindly
  association with your Democratic friends promotes your interests and
  theirs alike. Thanking you for this visit, I will ask you to excuse me
  from further speech. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 27.


Kosciusko County, Indiana, contributed two thousand visitors on the
twenty-seventh of July, under the leadership of Capt. C. W. Chapman,
James H. Cisney, Reub. Williams, Louis Ripple, J. E. Stevenson, Wm.
B. Wood, T. Loveday, John Wynant, Charles Adams, Nelson Richhart,
Captain A. S. Miller, Clinton Lowe, P. L. Runyon, James A. Cook, Frank
McGee, and John Burbaker, all of Warsaw. Judge H. S. Biggs made the
presentation address. General Harrison replied as follows:

  _Mr. Biggs and my Kosciusko County Friends_--I did not need to be
  assured of the friendliness of the Republicans of your county. It has
  been evidenced too many times in the past. Before the convention at
  Chicago the Republicans of your county gave me the assurance that my
  nomination would meet the cordial approbation of your people. I am
  glad to welcome you here to-day, and regret that your journey hither
  has been so tedious. You are proud of the State in which you dwell;
  proud of her institutions of learning; proud of her great benevolent
  institutions, which I notice by one of these banners you have pledged
  yourselves to protect from party spoliation and degradation. [Applause
  and cries of "Good! Good!"] But while we have much that is cause for
  congratulation, we are not enjoying that full equality of civil rights
  in the State of Indiana to which we are entitled.

  Our Government is a representative government. Delegates in Congress
  and members of our State Senate and House of Representatives are
  apportioned to districts, and the National and State Constitutions
  contemplate that these districts shall be equal, so that, as far as
  possible, each citizen shall have, in his district, the same potency
  in choosing a Member of Congress or of our State Legislature as is
  exercised by a voter in any other district. We do not to-day have that
  condition of things. The apportionment of our State for legislative
  and congressional purposes is unfair, and is known to be unfair to
  all men. No candid Democrat can defend it as a fair apportionment. It
  was framed to be unequal, it was designed to give to the citizens of
  favored districts an undue influence. It was intended to discriminate
  against Republicans. It is not right that it should be so. I hope the
  time is coming, and has even now arrived, when the great sense of
  justice which possesses our people will teach men of all parties that
  party success is not to be promoted at the expense of an injustice to
  any of our citizens. [Applause.] These things take hold of government.
  If we would maintain that respect for the law which is necessary to
  social order, our people must understand that each voter has his full
  and equal influence in determining what the law shall be. I hope this
  question will not be forgotten by our people until we have secured
  in Indiana a fair apportionment for legislative and congressional
  purposes. [Cheers.] When the Republicans shall secure the power of
  making an apportionment, I hope and believe that the experiment of
  seeking a party advantage by a public injustice will not be repeated.
  [Great applause and cries of "Good! Good!"]

  There are some other questions affecting suffrage, too, to which my
  attention has, from circumstances, been particularly attracted. There
  are in the Northwest several Territories organized under public law
  with defined boundaries. They have been filled up with the elect of
  our citizens--the brave, the enterprising and intelligent young men
  from all the States. Many of the veterans of the late war have sought
  under our beneficent homestead law new homes in the West. Several of
  these Territories have been for years possessed of population, wealth,
  and all the requisites for admission as States. When the Territory
  of Indiana took the census which was the basis for its petition for
  admission to the Union we had less than 64,000 people; we had only
  thirteen organized counties. In the Territory of South Dakota there
  are nearly half a million people. For years they have been knocking
  for admission to the sisterhood of States.

  They are possessed of all the elements of an organized and
  stable community. It has more people, more miles of railroad, more
  post-offices, more churches, more banks, more wealth, than any
  Territory ever possessed when it was admitted to the Union. It
  surpasses some of the States in these particulars. Four years ago,
  when a President was to be chosen, the Committee on Territories in
  the Senate, to meet the objection of our Democratic friends that the
  admission of Dakota would add a disturbing element to the Electoral
  College, provided in the Dakota bill that its organization should be
  postponed until after the election; now four years more have rolled
  around, and our people are called again to take part in a presidential
  election, and the intelligent and patriotic Dakota people are again to
  be deprived of any participation. I ask you why this is so? Is not the
  answer obvious? [Cries of "Yes!"] They are disfranchised and deprived
  of their appropriate influence in the Electoral College only because
  the prevailing sentiment in the Territory is Republican. [Cries
  of "That's right!" "That's the reason!"] The cause of Washington
  Territory is more recent but no less flagrant. If we appropriately
  express sympathy with the cause of Irish home rule, shall we not
  also demand home rule for Dakota and Washington, and insist that
  their disfranchisement shall not be prolonged? [Applause.] There is a
  sense of justice, of fairness, that will assert itself against these
  attempts to coin party advantage out of public wrong. The day when men
  can be disfranchised or shorn of their political power for opinion's
  sake must have an end in our country. [Cheers.] I thank you again for
  your call, and if you will observe the arrangement which has been
  suggested I will be glad to take each of you by the hand. I know that
  some of you are fasting, and therefore we will shorten these exercises
  in order that you may obtain needed refreshments. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 28.


Jennings County, Indiana, was represented on the above date by a large
delegation under the auspices of the Harrison and Morton Clubs of Vernon
and North Vernon. The leaders of their delegation were Fred H. Nauer, J.
C. Cope, C. E. Wagner, W. G. Norris, Dr. T. C. Bachelder, T. A. Pearce,
P. C. McGannon, and Prof. Amos Saunders. Hon. Frank E. Little, President
of the North Vernon Club, delivered the address. General Harrison, in
response, said:

  _My Friends_--It is a source of regret to me that I can do so
  little to compensate those who take the trouble to visit me. I need
  hardly say to you that I very highly appreciate this evidence of your
  friendliness and also the kind words which you have addressed to me
  through your representative. Jennings County has a history of which
  it may well be proud. It has contributed to the city of Indianapolis
  some of our most distinguished and useful men. Your spokesman has
  not exaggerated the fidelity and steadfastness of the people of your
  county. Your republicanism has been as straight as the walls of your
  cliffs [applause] and as solid as the limestone with which your hills
  are buttressed. [Applause.]

  You have said to me that you are in favor of a free and equal
  ballot the country over. We are so related in our Government that
  any disturbance of the suffrage anywhere directly affects us all. Our
  Members of Congress pass upon questions that are as wide as the domain
  over which our flag floats. Therefore, our interest in the choice of
  these representatives is not limited to our own districts. If the
  debate upon public questions is to be of value the voter must be free
  to register his conclusion. The tribunal which is to pronounce upon
  the argument must not be coerced.

  You have said to me that you favor the doctrine of protection. The
  Republican party stands for the principles of protection. We believe
  in the preservation of the American market for our American producers
  and workmen. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"] We believe that
  the development of home manufactures tends directly to promote the
  interest of agriculture by furnishing a home market for the products
  of the farm, and thus emancipating our farmers from the transportation
  charges which they must pay when their products seek distant markets.
  [Applause.]

  We are confronted now with a Treasury surplus. Our position is
  exceptional. We are not seeking, as many other nations are, new
  subjects of taxation, new sources of revenue. Our quest is now how,
  wisely, to reduce our national revenue. The attempt has been made to
  use this surplus as a lever to overturn the protective system. The
  promoters of this scheme, while professing a desire to diminish the
  surplus, have acted as if their purpose was to increase it in part by
  opposing necessary and legitimate appropriations. I agree that there
  is danger that a surplus may promote extravagance, but I do not find
  myself in sympathy with that policy that denies the appropriation
  necessary for the proper defence of our people, and for the convenient
  administration of our public affairs throughout the country, in order
  that the threat of a surplus may be used for a sinister purpose. I
  believe that in reducing our revenues to the level of our needful
  and proper expenditures we can and should continue to favor and
  protect our industries. I do not like to entrust this work to those
  who declare protective duties to be vicious "legalized robbery." The
  Republican party has by its legislation shown its capacity wisely to
  reduce our revenues and at the same time to preserve the American
  system. [Applause.] It can be trusted to do the work that remains, and
  to do it wisely. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 31.


The last delegation in July came from Henry County, Indiana, two
thousand strong, headed by C. S. Hernley, W. H. Elliott, Hon. Eugene
Bundy, Judge Mark E. Forkner, A. Abernathy, A. D. Osborn, O. P. M.
Hubbard, David Luellen, O. B. Mooney, and Captain Armstrong, all of New
Castle. Gen. William H. Grose was their orator.

In his response General Harrison at this early day out-lined his views
upon reciprocal trade relations with South American nations--views which
were afterwards successfully, and with great profit to our people, put
into effect through the celebrated reciprocity treaties with Brazil,
Venezuela and other countries.

Repeated outbursts of enthusiasm punctured his address. He said:

  _Comrade Grose and my Henry County Friends_--If we have here any
  discouraged statesman who takes a despondent view of the future of the
  country, I think he would recover his hopefulness if he could look,
  once in a while, into the face of an audience like this. [Applause.]

  You came from a county that has been a bulwark of republicanism
  since the party was organized. You had an early element in your
  population that has done much to promote your material interests, and,
  much more, to lift up those principles that relate to the purity of
  the home and to the freedom of men. The Friends, who have been and
  are so large and so influential an element in your population and in
  the counties surrounding it, are a people notable for the purity of
  their home life and for their broad and loving sympathy with all men.
  They were the early enemies of slavery, and they have always naturally
  been the strength of the Republican party in the community where they
  reside. Your spokesman has expressed your continued interest in the
  party to which some of you gave the confidence of your matured powers
  and some of you the early devotion of your youth. The Republican party
  has accomplished for the country a great work in the brief period of
  its life. It preserved the Nation by a wise, courageous and patriotic
  administration. What that means for you and your posterity, what it
  means for the world, no man can tell. It would have been a climax of
  disaster for the world if this Government of the people had perished.
  The one unsolved experiment of free government was solved. We have
  demonstrated the capacity of the people and a citizen soldiery to
  maintain inviolate the unity of the Republic. [Applause.]

  There remain now, fortunately, chiefly economic questions to be
  thought of and to be settled. We refer to the great war, not in any
  spirit of hostility to any section or any class of men, but only
  because we believe it to be good for the whole country that loyalty
  and fidelity to the flag should be honored. [Great applause.] It was
  one of the great triumphs of the war, a particular in which our war
  was distinguished from all other wars of history, that we brought the
  vanquished into the same full, equal citizenship under the law that we
  maintained for ourselves.

  In all the addresses which have been made to me there has been some
  reference to the great question of the protection of our American
  industries. I see it upon the banners which you carry. Our party
  stands unequivocally, without evasion or qualification, for the
  doctrine that the American market shall be preserved for our American
  producers. [Great applause.] We are not attracted by the suggestion
  that we should surrender to foreign producers the best market in the
  world. Our sixty millions of people are the best buyers in the world,
  and they are such because our working classes receive the best wages.
  _But we do not mean to be content with our own market. We should seek
  to promote closer and more friendly commercial relations with the
  Central and South American States._ [Applause.] And what is essential
  to that end? Regular mails are the first condition of commerce.

  The merchant must know when his order will be received, and when his
  consignment will be returned, or there can be no trade between distant
  communities. What we need, therefore, is the establishment of American
  steamship lines between our ports and the ports of Central and South
  America. [Applause.] Then it will no longer be necessary that an
  American minister, commissioned to an American State, shall take an
  English ship to Liverpool to find another English ship to carry him to
  his destination. We are not to be frightened by the use of that ugly
  word "subsidy." [Laughter.] We should pay to American steamship lines
  a liberal compensation for carrying our mails, instead of turning them
  over to British tramp steamships. [Applause.] We do not desire to
  dominate these neighboring governments; we do not desire to deal with
  them in any spirit of aggression. _We desire those friendly political,
  mental, and commercial relations which shall promote their interests
  equally with ours._ We should not longer forego those commercial
  relations and advantages which our geographical relations suggest and
  make so desirable. If you will excuse me from further public speech I
  will be glad to take by the hand my Henry County friends. [Cheers.]

Mr. Harrison arrived home--after the Henry County reception in
University Park--in time to welcome his guest, Gen. R. A. Alger of
Michigan, the distinguished gentlemen meeting for the first time. In the
afternoon several hundred of the Henry County visitors, escorted by the
local clubs, marched to the Harrison residence to pay their respects to
General Alger.

In introducing his guest General Harrison said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have had the pleasure to-day to receive
  in my own home a distinguished citizen of a neighboring State;
  distinguished not only for his relation to the civil administration of
  affairs in his State, but also as one of those conspicuous soldiers
  contributed by Michigan to the armies of the Union when our national
  life was in peril. I am sure you will be glad to make broader the
  welcome I have given him, and to show him that he has a warm place in
  the affections of our Indiana people. Let me present to you General
  Alger of Michigan. [Prolonged applause.]

General Alger responded as follows:

  _Gentlemen_--I thank you very much for this cordial greeting. I
  thank you very kindly, General Harrison, for the pleasant words you
  have said of me personally. I wish to say--as you would know if you
  lived in Michigan--that I am not a speechmaker. I composed a few
  speeches some weeks ago, and General Harrison has been delivering them
  ever since. [Laughter.] After reading his speeches carefully, each
  one of them a gem of concentrated thought, I have made up my mind
  that the Chicago Convention made no mistake. [Applause.] We have not
  held any _post-mortem_ in our State. We are glad that we have such a
  gallant candidate, a man in whose composition no flaw can be found,
  in whose life no act or word can be adversely criticised. We are as
  proud in Michigan of your candidate--who is our candidate also--as we
  could possibly be were any other man in the universe named. We are all
  Harrison men in Michigan now; and the place he has in our hearts is
  just as warm as though he lived within our own borders. [Applause.]
  You Hoosiers have no patent upon this. [Applause.] The people of the
  United States have a great crisis before them. The question as to the
  life and prosperity of our industrial institutions is at stake. We
  have, as we have always had, since this country was worth caring for,
  the opposition of the English Government.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 1.


The month of August opened with two thousand visitors from Morgan and
Brown counties, including thirty survivors of General Harrison's former
regiment. The several clubs comprising the Brown County delegation were
led by Norman J. Roberts, Leander Woods, Wm. Griffin, E. D. Turner, and
C. W. Mackenzie of Nashville.

Prominent in the Morgan County detachment were W. W. Kennedy, W. C.
Banta, John Hardwick, M. G. Branch, David Wilson, H. C. Hodges, R. C.
Griffitt, J. G. Bain, John S. Newby, J. G. Kennedy, U. M. Hinson, Merwin
Rowe, Hon. J. H. Jordan, H. R. Butler, W. C. Barnett, John C. Comer,
Geo. Mitchell, and J. I. Hilton of Martinsville. Hon. G. A. Adams spoke
for the visitors.

General Harrison, responding, said:

  _Mr. Adams and my Morgan and Brown County Friends_--In previous
  campaigns I have not put you to the trouble to come and see me. My
  habit has been to go to you, and it has been my pleasure often to
  discuss before you the issues that were involved in our campaigns. The
  limitations which are upon me now prevent me from following this old
  habit, and put you, who desire to see me, to the trouble of coming
  here. My associations with the county of Morgan have been very close.
  Among its citizens are some of my most devoted personal and political
  friends. There are also in your county a large number of my comrades,
  to whom I am bound by the very close ties that must always unite those
  who marched under the same regimental banner. Your county furnished
  two companies for the Seventieth Indiana--brave, true men, commanded
  by intelligent and capable officers, and having in the ranks of both
  companies men as capable of command as any who wore shoulder-straps
  in the regiment. These men, together with their comrades of the
  Thirty-third and other regiments that were recruited in your county,
  went into the service from very high motives. They heard the call of
  their country, saying: "He that loveth father or mother or wife or
  child or houses or lands more than me is not worthy of me," and they
  were found worthy by this supreme test. Many of you were so careless
  of a money recompense for the service you offered and gave that when
  you lifted your hands and swore to protect and defend the Constitution
  and the flag you didn't even know what your pay was to be. [Cries
  of "That's so!"] If there was any carefulness or thought in that
  direction it was only that the necessary provision might be made for
  those you left at home. No sordid impulse, no low emotion, called you
  to the field. [Applause.] In remembering all the painful ways in which
  you walked, ways of toil, and suffering, and sickness, and dying, to
  emerge into the glorious sunlight of that great day at Washington, we
  must not forget that in the homes you left there were also sacrifices
  and sufferings. Anxiety dwelt perpetually with those you left behind.
  We remember gratefully the sacrifices and sufferings of the fathers
  and mothers who sent you to the field, and, much more, of the wives
  who bravely gave up to the country the most cherished objects of their
  love. And now peace has come; no hand is lifted against the flag; the
  Constitution is again supreme and the Nation one. My countrymen, it is
  no time now to use an apothecary's scale to weigh the rewards of the
  men who saved the country. [Applause.]

  If you will pardon me I will not further follow the line of remarks
  suggested by the kind words you have addressed to me through your
  representative. I notice the limitation which your spokesman has put
  upon you, but I beg to assure him and you that I am not so worn that I
  have not the strength to greet any of you who may desire to greet me.
  [Great applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 3.


On the third of August, with the mercury registering ninety-nine
degrees, thirty-five hundred visitors arrived from Montgomery and
Clinton counties, Indiana. Their parade, carrying miniature log-cabins
and other emblems, was one of the most enthusiastic demonstrations of
the campaign. Fifty voters of 1840 headed the column led by Major D.
K. Price, aged 92. The Montgomery County delegation was marshalled by
John H. Burford, W. W. Thornton, T. H. B. McCain, John S. Brown, E. P.
McClarkey, John Johnson, J. R. Bonnell, D. W. Roundtree, T. H. Ristine,
H. M. Billingsley, Dumont Kennedy, and Clerk Hulett of Crawfordsville.
Their spokesman was Hon. Peter S. Kennedy.

Among the Clinton County leaders were Albert H. Coble, Edward R. Burns,
A. T. Dennis, Wm. H. Staley, R. P. Shanklin, S. A. Coulton, J. W.
Harrison, J. T. Hockman, Nicholas Rice, Ambrose Colby, Oliver Hedgecock,
and Dr. Gard of Frankfort. Judge J. C. Suit was their orator.

In reply to their addresses General Harrison said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--These daily and increasing delegations coming
  to witness their interest in the great issues which are presented for
  their consideration and determination, and bearing as they do to me
  their kind personal greetings, quite overmatch my ability to fittingly
  greet and respond to them.

  You are here from every walk in life. Some of you have achieved
  success in the mechanical arts, some in professional pursuits, and
  more of you come from that first great pursuit of man--the tilling of
  the soil--and you come to express the thought that you have common
  interests; that these diverse pursuits are bound together harmoniously
  in a common governmental policy and administration. Your interests
  have had a harmonious and an amazing growth under that protective
  system to which your representatives have referred, and you wisely
  demand a continuation of that policy for their further advancement
  and development. [Applause.] You are in large part members of the
  Republican party. You have in the past contributed your personal
  influence, as well as your ballots, to the great victories which it
  has won. Among the great achievements of our party I think we may
  worthily mention the passage of that beneficent act of legislation
  known as the "homestead law." It was impossible to the old parties.
  It was possible only to a party composed of the sturdy yeomanry of
  the free States. [Applause.] It has populated our Territories and
  newer States with the elect of our citizenship. It opened a way
  to an ownership of the soil to a vast number of our citizens, and
  there is no surer bond in the direction of good citizenship than
  that our people should have property in the soil upon which they
  live. It is one of the best elements of our strength as a State
  that our farm-lands are so largely possessed in small tracts, and
  are tilled by the men who own them. It is one of the best evidences
  of the prosperity of our cities that so large a proportion of the
  men who work are covered by their own roof trees. If we would
  perpetuate this condition, we must maintain the American scale of
  wages. [Applause.] The policy of the subdivision of the soil is one
  that tends to strengthen our national life. God grant that it may be
  long before we have in this country a tenantry that is hopelessly
  such from one generation to another. [Applause.] That condition of
  things which makes Ireland a land of tenants, and which holds in
  vast estates the lands of England, must never find footing here.
  [Applause.] Small farms invite the church and the school-house into
  the neighborhood. Therefore, it was in the beginning the Republican
  party declared for free homes of a quarter-section each. That policy
  should be perpetuated as long as our public domain lasts, and all our
  legislation should tend in the direction which I have indicated. I
  cannot discuss all the important questions to which you have called my
  attention. I have before alluded to some of them. My Montgomery and
  Clinton county friends, I thank you for the cordial and hopeful words
  you have addressed to me. My highest ambition is to be found worthy of
  your respect and confidence. [Applause.]

  To these veterans of 1840 who kindly transfer to this the interest
  they felt in that campaign, to these first voters who come to join us
  with the high impulses of youth, I desire to extend my sincere thanks.
  [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 4.


The most remarkable night demonstration of the campaign occurred August
4, the occasion being the visit of the Harrison and Morton Railroad
Club of Terre Haute, a thousand strong. They were met by twelve hundred
members of the Indianapolis Railroad Club, and, escorted by several
thousand citizens, marched to the Harrison residence.

At the head of the column rolled the model of a monster locomotive,
emitting fire and smoke and bearing the significant number 544, Hundreds
of stores and residences along the line of march were illuminated.

At the head of the visiting club marched its officers: President, D.
T. Downs; Secretary, Chas. E. Carter; Treasurer, Benj. McKeen; and
Vice-Presidents, R. B. Woolsey, J. L. Pringle, J. N. Evanhart, E. G.
South, L. M. Murphy, H. M. Kearns, George Leckert, and W. H. Miller.

President Downs delivered an address and presented an engrossed copy of
the club roster. General Harrison spoke from a stand in front of his
residence, and said:

  _Mr. Downs, Gentlemen of the Terre Haute Railroad Club, and
  Fellow-citizens_--I am amazed and gratified at the character of this
  demonstration to-night. I do not find words to express the emotions
  which swell in my heart as I look into your faces and listen to the
  kindly greetings which you have given me through your representative.
  He has not spoken in too high praise of the railroad men of the United
  States. The character of the duties they are called to discharge
  require great intelligence, in many departments the best skill in the
  highest mechanic arts, and in all, even in the lowest grade of labor
  in connection with railroad management, there is required, for the
  safety of the public who entrust themselves to your care, fidelity
  and watchfulness, not only in the day, but in the darkness. The man
  who attends the switch, the trackman who observes the condition of
  the track--all these have put into their charge and keeping the
  lives of men and women and the safety of our commerce. Therefore it
  is that the exigencies of the service in which you are engaged have
  operated to select and call into the service of our great railroad
  corporations a picked body of men. I gratefully acknowledge to-night
  the service you render to the country of which I am a citizen. The
  great importance of the enterprises with which you are connected have
  already suggested to our legislators that they owe duties to you as
  well as to the travelling and mercantile public. The Congress of the
  United States has, under that provision of the Constitution which
  commits to its care all foreign and interstate commerce, undertaken
  to regulate the great interstate railroads in the interest of equal
  and fair competition and in the equal interest of all members of our
  communities. I do not doubt that certain and necessary provisions
  for the safety of the men who operate these roads will yet be made
  compulsory by public and general law. [Applause.] The dangers
  connected with your calling are very great, and the public interest,
  as well as your own, requires that they should be reduced to the
  minimum. I do not doubt that we shall yet require that uniformity
  in the construction of railroad cars that will diminish the danger
  of those who must pass between them in order to make up trains.
  [Applause.] I do not doubt, either, that as these corporations are
  not private corporations, but are recognized by the law to which I
  have referred and by the uniform decisions of our courts as having
  public relations, we shall yet see legislation in the direction of
  providing some suitable tribunal of arbitration for the settlement of
  differences between railroad men and the companies that engage their
  services. [Great applause.] I believe that in these directions, and
  others that I have not time to suggest, reforms will work themselves
  out, with exact justice to the companies and with justice to the
  men they employ. Because, my friends, I do not doubt--and I hope
  you will never allow yourselves to doubt--that the great mass of
  our people, of all vocations and callings, love justice and right
  and hate oppression. [Applause.] The laboring men of this land may
  safely trust every just reform in which they are interested to public
  discussion and to the logic of reason; they may surely hope, upon
  these lines, which are open to you by the ballot-box, to accomplish
  under our American institutions all those right things you have
  conceived as necessary to your highest success and well-being. Do not
  allow yourselves to doubt, for one moment, the friendly sentiment of
  the great masses of our people. Make your appeal wisely, and calmly,
  and boldly, for every reform you desire, to that sentiment of justice
  which pervades our American public. [Applause.]

  You come to-night from one of our most beautiful Indiana cities.
  It was built on the Wabash in the expectation that that stream would
  furnish the channel of its communication with the outside world.
  But the Wabash is a small tributary to-day to the commerce of Terre
  Haute. The railroads that span it are the great vehicles of your
  commerce. They have largely superseded the water communication that
  was deemed so important in the first settlement, and, perhaps, was so
  decisive in the location of your city. Terre Haute is conspicuous for
  its industries. The smoke of your factories goes up night and day.
  The farms about your city have become gardens, and the cordial and
  harmonious relations between the railroad shop and the factory and
  the farms that lie about have a conspicuous illustration with you.
  You have found that that policy which built up these shops, which
  maintains them, which secures the largest output yearly from the
  factories, which gives employment to the largest number of men, is
  the best thing not only for the railroads that do the transportation,
  but for the workingmen, who find steady employment at good wages,
  and for the farmers, who supply their needs. [Applause.] You will
  not willingly be led to believe that any policy that would check
  the progress and the prosperity of these enterprises is good for
  you or for the community in which you live. [Applause and cries of
  "No, never!"] It will be hard to convince such an intelligent body
  of workingmen that a policy which would transfer from this country
  to any other the work that might be done here is good for them.
  [Applause.] It can easily be demonstrated that if our revenue laws
  were so adjusted that the imports from Great Britain should be doubled
  it would be good for the workingmen of England, but I think it would
  be hard to demonstrate that it would be good for the workingmen of
  America. [Applause.] There is a wise selfishness; it begins at home,
  and he who has the care of his own family first, of the community in
  which he lives, of the nation of which he is a citizen, is wise in his
  generation.

  Now, my friends, I have been daily talking. I used to be thought by
  my friends to be a reticent man. [Laughter.] I fear I am making an
  impression that I am garrulous. [Cries of "No! No!"] And yet, when
  friends such as you take the trouble you have to-night to visit me, I
  feel that I owe it to you to say something.

  Now, thanking you for this roster, which will furnish authentic
  evidence, if it is challenged, that this visit to-night has been from
  genuine railroad men [applause], I venture to invite my Terre Haute
  friends to enter my house. I will ask the citizens of Indianapolis,
  the escort club of my own home, railroad friends who have done so
  much to make your coming here to-night pleasant, to kindly refrain
  themselves, and allow me to greet the visitors. In order that that
  may be accomplished, I will ask some of my Terre Haute friends to
  place themselves by the door, that I may meet those who are of their
  company. The others I have seen, or will see some other day.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 6.


Monday, August 6, General Harrison received a visit from one hundred
members of the Kansas City Blaine Club, accompanied by many ladies, _en
route_ to New York to welcome the Maine statesman on his return from
Europe. Col. R. H. Hunt led the club, and delivered a stirring address
on behalf of the Republicans of Missouri. On concluding he introduced
Miss Abbie Burgess, who presented the General a beautiful badge
inscribed "The Kansas City Blaine Club Greet Their Next President."
Miss Burgess made the presentation in the name of the working-women of
America.

General Harrison responded briefly to these addresses, stating that he
found he had been talking a great deal of late; "but," he added, "I
never begin it; some one else always starts it." He returned his cordial
thanks to the visitors for the compliment of their call.

Speaking of the trip which the visitors were making, he commended its
purpose in meeting upon his return to America "that matchless defender
of Republican principles--James G. Blaine." He felt sure that no
circumstance would be omitted in doing him merited honor. He was glad to
know that the Republicans of Missouri are so zealous and aggressive. He
believed that they had, perhaps, too much acquiesced in the majorities
against them, and had not offered such resistance as would prove their
own strength. In the coming canvass he thought the economic questions
at issue ought to work to the interest of Republicans in Missouri and
overcome in part the prevailing Democratic prejudices there. He also
expressed the hope that the race question would cease to divide men by
prejudices that should long ago have become extinct.

In reply to Miss Burgess' address the General expressed his grateful
appreciation of the souvenir, and said that the women of the land could
never be forgotten. To those of them who are toilers for their daily
bread the first thought goes out in considering the question that
involves depreciation of wages, and concluded by declaring if cheaper
coats and cheaper garments were to be had by still further reducing
the wages of the sewing-women of America, then he was not in favor of
cheaper apparel.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 7.


Indianapolis contained several thousand visitors at this period, in
attendance on the State convention; in addition to these, however, on
the seventh of August two large delegations arrived. The first came
from Tippecanoe County. The city of Lafayette was represented by the
Lincoln Club, H. C. Tinney, President; the Garfield Club, Henry Vinton,
President; and the Young Men's Republican Club Association. Among other
prominent members of the delegation were James M. Reynolds, N. I.
Throckmorton, W. H. Caulkins, Charles E. Wilson, Wm. Fraser, John B.
Sherwood, Charles Terry, John Opp, Alexander Stidham, Matt Heffner, S.
Vater, Maurice Mayerstein, Geo. A. Harrison, W. D. Hilt, P. W. Sheehan,
C. H. Henderson, Henry Marshall, J. W. Jefferson, Wm. E. Beach, John B.
Gault, and H. M. Carter. Hon. B. Wilson Smith delivered an address on
behalf of his townsmen.

General Harrison, in his response, touched upon the origin and
principles of the Republican party. He said:

  _Mr. Smith and my Tippecanoe County Friends_--I am very grateful
  for the evidence which you give me this morning by your presence, and
  by the kind words which your representative has addressed to me, of
  your respect and good-will. You are members, in great part, of a party
  that was not machine-made. It had its birth in an impulse that stirred
  simultaneously the hearts of those who loved liberty. The first
  convention of our party did not organize it. Those men were great, but
  they were delegates--representatives of principles which had already
  asserted their power over the consciences and the hearts of the
  people. [Applause.] The Republican party did not organize for spoils;
  it assembled about an altar of sacrifice and in a sanctuary beset with
  enemies. You have not forgotten our early battle-cry--"Free speech,
  a free press, free schools and free Territories." We have widened
  the last word; it is now "a free Nation." The appeals which we have
  made and shall yet make are addressed to the hearts, the consciences,
  and to the mind of our people. Therefore, we believe in schools
  and colleges, and seminaries of learning. Education is the great
  conservative and assimilating force. A doubter is not necessarily
  an evil person. The capacity to doubt implies reason--the power of
  solving doubts; and if the doubt is accompanied with a purpose to find
  the truth and a supreme affection for the truth when it is found, he
  will not go widely astray. Therefore, in our political campaigns let
  men think for themselves, and the truth will assert its sway over
  the minds of our people. Then everything that affects the record and
  character of the candidate and the principles of the parties will
  be brought to a safe tribunal whose judgment will be right. [Great
  applause and cries of "Good!"]

  I am not unaware of the fact that some of you had another convention
  preference, but I have always believed that convention preferences
  should be free in the Republican party [applause], and that no
  prejudice should follow any Republican on account of that preference.
  As party men, we will judge a man by his post-convention conduct.

The second delegation comprised fifteen hundred citizens from Vanderburg
County. The Tippecanoe Club of Evansville, with sixty veterans, led the
column.

Leaders in the delegation were ex-Congressman Heilman, Henry S. Bennett,
Chas. H. McCarer, J. E. Iglehart, W. A. Wheeler, C. R. Howe, J. W.
Compton, S. B. Sansom, S. A. Bate, John H. Osborn, John W. Davidson,
Henry Ludwig, Wm. Koelling, A. S. Glover, J. W. Roelker, R. C.
Wilkinson, James D. Parvin, Wm. Warren, Chas. L. Roberts, and Geo. N.
Wells.

Dr. W. G. Ralston delivered an address in the name of the delegation.

General Harrison, in reply, said:

  _My Good Friends from the Pocket_--I feel very much complimented by
  your visit to-day. Your coming here from so great a distance involved
  much inconvenience which those who live nearer have not experienced.
  You are geographically remote, but it does not follow from that that
  you are remote from the sources of political influence and political
  power.

  The General then spoke of the extension of the Republican party from
  the lakes to the Ohio in Indiana and all over the North, saying that
  geographical lines marked its limits only in the South. He said that
  the people of Vanderburg County, living as they did on the Ohio River,
  a river that some men sought to make the division line between two
  governments, knew what it was to guard their homes and what it was to
  send out veterans from the sturdy yeomanry to the defence of their
  country. He referred in the highest terms to General Shackelford and
  his service in the hour of his country's need. "I greet you to-day,"
  he continued, "as Republicans--men whose judgment and conscience
  compel their political opinions. It does not fall to my lot now to
  argue or discuss at length any of the great political questions of
  the day. I have done that in the past. It is reserved for others in
  this campaign. I recall with pleasure my frequent visits to you and
  your cordial reception when I came to speak to you. In this contest
  others will maintain before you that great policy which, we believe,
  dignifies every American, both at home and abroad."

  Speaking in reference to wages, General Harrison said that he
  thought we often forget the women who were compelled to work for their
  daily bread. He sometimes thought those persons who demand cheaper
  coats would be ashamed of themselves if they could realize that their
  demand cut the wages of the women who made these coats. In concluding,
  he greeted and thanked the Tippecanoe Club for coming, and the
  Young Men's Republican Club also, saying that he had heard of their
  efficient work in the highest terms of praise.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 8.

_The Republican State Convention._


The Republican State Convention convened at Tomlinson Hall, city of
Indianapolis, August 8, 1888, and concluded its work in one day.

It was the largest attended and most enthusiastic convention ever held
in Indiana. Hon. Wm. H. Calkins of Indianapolis was chosen Chairman,
and Mark L. De Motte of Valparaiso Secretary. The following ticket was
nominated, and in November triumphantly elected:

_Governor_--Alvin P. Hovey, Posey County.

_Lieutenant-Governor_--Ira J. Chase, Hendricks County.

_Secretary of State_--Charles F. Griffin, Lake County.

_Auditor of State_--Bruce Carr, Orange County.

_Treasurer_--J. A. Lemcke, Vanderburg County.

_Attorney-General_--L. T. Michner, Shelby County.

_Superintendent Public Instruction_--H. M. LaFollette, Boone County.

_Reporter Supreme Court_--John L. Griffiths, Marion County.


JUDGES OF SUPREME COURT.

_First District_--Silas T. Coffey, Clay County.

_Second District_--J. G. Berkshire, Jennings County.

_Fourth District_--Walter Olds, Whitely County.

_Electors-at-Large_--James M. Shackelford, Vanderburg County; Thomas H.
Nelson, Vigo County.

Judge Gardner, a delegate from Daviess County, introduced a resolution,
which was unanimously adopted midst great enthusiasm, inviting General
Harrison to visit the convention, and designating Hon. Richard W.
Thompson, John W. Linck and E. P. Hammond a committee to convey the
invitation.

On the platform, with the presiding officer, to meet the distinguished
guest were the Hon. James N. Huston, Hon. John M. Butler, Hon. Will
Cumback, William Wallace, Hon. W. P. Fishback, Hon. A. C. Harris, Rev.
Dr. Backus, Judge E. B. Martindale, General Thomas Bennett, Judge J. H.
Jordan, and the Republican State officials.

The entrance of General Harrison, escorted by the committee, was
followed by a tumultuous scene rarely witnessed outside of a national
convention, the demonstration lasting nearly ten minutes. Chairman
Calkins finally succeeded in introducing--"the next President"--and
General Harrison spoke as follows:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Convention_--When I received
  your invitation to appear for a moment before you I felt that what
  you asked could not involve any indelicacy, and as it offered me the
  only opportunity which I shall have to look into the faces of my
  Indiana Republican friends here assembled, I could not find it in
  my heart to deny myself the pleasure of spending a moment in your
  presence. [Applause.] This enthusiastic and kindly reception crowns
  a long series of friendly acts on the part of my Republican friends
  of Indiana. To have your confidence is very grateful to me, to be
  worthy of your confidence is the highest ambition I can set before me.
  [Applause.] Whatever may befall me, I feel that my fellow-citizens of
  Indiana have crowned me and made me forever their debtor. [Applause.]
  But I must not detain you from the business which has brought you
  here. [Cries of "Go on!"] Such an assemblage as this is characteristic
  of America. What you shall do to-day will influence the prosperity and
  welfare of the State. Such a meeting is a notable historical event.
  We have to-day transpiring in this country two other events that are
  attracting wide interest. At the chief seaport of our country that
  great Republican, and that great American, James G. Blaine, returns to
  his home. [Applause.] We shall not be disappointed, I hope, in hearing
  his powerful voice in Indiana before the campaign is old. [Applause.]
  Another scene attracts our solemn and even tearful interest, for
  while you are transacting your business here to-day a draped train is
  bearing from the place of his sojourn by the sea to the place of his
  interment at Washington the mortal part of Philip H. Sheridan. From
  the convention at Chicago we sent him our greetings and our earnest
  prayers for his restoration. To-day we mourn our hero dead. You called
  him then a favorite child of victory, and such he was. He was one of
  those great commanders who, upon the field of battle, towered a very
  god of war. [Applause.] He was one of those earnest fighters for his
  country who did not at the end of his first day's fight contemplate
  rest and recuperation for his own command. He rested and refreshed
  his command with the wine of victory, and found recuperation in the
  dispersion of the enemy that confronted him. [Great applause.] This
  gallant son of Ireland and America [great applause] has written a
  chapter in the art of war that will not fail to instruct and to
  develop, when the exigencies may come again, others who shall repeat
  in defence of our flag his glorious achievements. [Great applause.]

  And now, Mr. President, and gentlemen, I am sure the heat of this
  hall and the labors that are before you suggest to you, as they do
  to me, that I shall close these remarks and bid you good-by. [Great
  applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 14.


Godfrey Commandery, Knights Templars, of Chicago, colored men, _en
route_ to the Grand Conclave at Louisville, paid their respects to
General Harrison on the 13th, and were individually presented by Eminent
Commander H. S. Cooper. On August 14 the visitors aggregated 6,000.

The first delegation came from Hamilton County, Indiana, headed by
eighty veterans of the Tippecanoe Club, Charles Swain, President. There
were nine Lincoln League organizations in line. Among the leaders were
J. K. Bush, J. E. Walker, F. B. Pfaff, J. R. Christian, Benj. Goldsmith,
Ike Hiatt, and C. R. Davis, of Noblesville, and Captain Carl, of
Arcadia. Hon. J. R. Gray was their spokesman.

General Harrison, in reply, said:

  _Colonel Gray and my Hamilton County Friends_--The demonstration
  which you have made this morning is worthy of Hamilton County; it is
  worthy of the great party to which you have given the consent of your
  minds and the love of your hearts; it is altogether more than worthy
  of him whom you have come to greet. You come from a county that, as
  your spokesman has said, is greatly favored, a county rich in its
  agricultural capacity; but, as I look into your faces this morning
  I turn from the contemplation of material wealth to the thought of
  those things that are higher and better. [Applause and cries of "Good!
  Good!"] Not long ago a distinguished Englishman and jurist visited our
  country. On the eve of his return, in a public address, he alluded to
  the fact that wherever he went he was asked whether he was not amazed
  at the great size of our country. This student of law and government
  very kindly, but very decidedly, rebuked this too prevalent pride of
  bulk, and called our attention to the finer and higher things that he
  had observed in our American civilization.

  So to-day, as I look into these intelligent faces, my thoughts
  are turned away from those things that are scheduled, that have
  their places in our census returns, to those things which belong
  to the higher man--his spiritual and moral nature. [Applause.] I
  congratulate you, not so much upon the rich farm lands of your
  county as upon your virtuous and happy homes. [Applause.] The home is
  the best, as it is the first, school of good citizenship. It is the
  great conservative and assimilating force. I should despair for my
  country if American citizens were to be trained only in our schools,
  valuable as their instruction is. It is in the home that we first
  learn obedience and respect for law. Parental authority is the type of
  beneficent government. It is in the home that we learn to love, in the
  mother that bore us, that which is virtuous, consecrated, and pure.
  [Applause.] I take more pride in the fact that the Republican party
  has always been the friend and protector of the American home than in
  aught else. [Applause.] By the beneficent homestead law it created
  more than half a million of homes; by the Emancipation Proclamation it
  converted a million cattle-pens into homes. [Applause] And it is still
  true to those principles that will preserve contentment and prosperity
  in our homes. I greet you as men who have been nurtured in such homes,
  and call your thought to the fact that the Republican party has always
  been, and can be trusted to be, friendly to all that will promote
  virtue, intelligence and morality in the homes of our people.

  Now, in view of the fact that I must greet other delegations to-day
  [cries of "Don't stop!"], I am sure you will be content with these
  brief remarks, though they are altogether an inadequate return for
  your cordial demonstration.

The other delegations of the day came from Macon and Douglas counties,
Illinois, numbering 3,000. A notable feature of the Douglas County
display was the tattered old battle-flag of the Twenty-first Illinois
Regiment--General Grant's original regiment--borne by seven survivors.

Capt. T. D. Minturn, of Tuscola, was spokesman. At the head of the
Macon County column marched 300 uniformed members of the Young Men's
Republican Club of Decatur, led by Captain Wm. M. Strange and Wm.
Frazier; Prof. L. A. Estes, of Westfield, headed a company from that
town. Andrew H. Mills, of Decatur, spoke for the Macon County people.

General Harrison said:

  _My Republican Friends_--I feel myself unable to respond suitably
  to this magnificent demonstration and to those kindly words which you
  have addressed to me. Public duties involve grave responsibilities.
  The conscientious man will not contemplate them without seriousness.
  But the man who sincerely desires to know and to do his duty may
  rely upon the favoring help of God and the friendly judgment of his
  fellow-citizens. [Great applause.]

  Your coming from another State and from distant homes testifies to
  the observing interest which you feel in those questions which are to
  be settled by the ballot in November. [Cries of "We will settle them!"]

  The confessed free-traders are very few in this country. But English
  statesmen and English newspapers confidently declare that in fact we
  have a great many. [Applause.]

  We are told that it is only an average reduction of seven per
  cent. that is contemplated. [Laughter.] Well, if that were true, and
  not a very deceptive statement, as it really is, you might fairly
  ask whether this average reduction does not sacrifice some American
  industry or the wages of our workingmen and working-women. You may
  also fairly ask to see the free list, which does not figure in this
  "average." [Applause, and cries of "That's it!"] We would have more
  confidence in the protest of these reformers that they are not
  "free-traders" if we could occasionally hear one of them say that
  he was a protectionist [applause], or admit that our customs duties
  should adequately favor our domestic industries. But they seem to be
  content with a negative statement.

  Those who would, if they could, eliminate the protective principle
  from our tariff laws have, in former moments of candor, described
  themselves as "progressive free-traders," and it is an apt
  designation. The protective system is a barrier against the flood of
  foreign importations and the competition of underpaid labor in Europe.
  [Applause.] Those who want to lower the dike owe it to those who live
  behind it to make a plain statement of their purposes. Do they want to
  invite the flood, or do they believe in the dike, but think it will
  afford adequate protection at a lower level? [Great and enthusiastic
  applause.]

  What I say is only suggestive. I cannot in this brief talk go into
  details, or even properly limit the illustrations I have used. But
  this is an appropriate and timely inquiry: With what motive, what
  ultimate design, what disposition toward the principle of protection
  is it that our present tariff schedule is attacked? It may be that
  reductions should be made; it may be that some duties should be
  increased; but we want to know whether those who propose the revision
  believe in taking thought of our American workingmen in fixing the
  rates, or will leave them to the chance effects of a purely revenue
  tariff. [Applause.]

  Now, having spoken once already to-day, you will accept this
  inadequate acknowledgment of this magnificent demonstration.

  I thank you, my Illinois friends, not only on my own behalf, but on
  behalf of the Republicans of Indiana, for the great interest you have
  manifested. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 15.


Rush, Decatur, and Delaware counties, Indiana, contributed fully five
thousand visitors on the 15th of August. Rush County sent twenty
Republican clubs, mainly township organizations, led by one hundred
veterans of 1836 and '40. The prominent Republicans of the delegation
were Hon. John K. Gowdy, John M. Stevens, A. L. Riggs, W. J. Henley,
John F. Moses, T. M. Green, J. C. Kiplinger, J. W. Study, and G. W.
Looney, of Rushville; R. R. Spencer and J. A. Shannon, of Richland.
Judge W. A. Cullen was their spokesman.

General Harrison, responding, said:

  _Judge Cullen and my Rush County Friends_--I am glad to see you
  here--glad to be assured by him who has spoken in your behalf that
  your coming here in some measure is intended as an evidence of your
  personal respect for me. The respect of one's fellow-citizens, who
  have opportunities to know him, is of priceless value.

  I cannot in these daily addresses enter much into public questions.

  You are Indianians, some of you by birth; some of you, like me, by
  choice. You are Republicans; you have opposed always the doctrine of
  State's rights; you have believed and gloried in the great citizenship
  that embraces all the people of all the States. You believe that
  this Government is not a confederation to be dissolved at the will
  of any member of it, but a Nation having the inherent right, by
  arms, if need be, to perpetuate its beneficent existence. [Great
  applause.] Many of you who are here to-day have aided in vindicating
  that principle upon the battle-field [cries of "Plenty of us!"], and
  yet these views are not inconsistent with a just State pride. We are
  proud to be Indianians, proud of the story of her progress in material
  development, proud of her educational and benevolent institutions,
  proud of her Christian homes, proud of her part in the Civil War.
  If there has been any just cause of reproach against our State we
  will all desire that it may be removed. We may fairly appeal to all
  Indianians, without distinction of party, to co-operate in promoting
  such public measures as are calculated to lift up the dignity and
  honor and estimation of Indiana among the States of the Union. [Great
  applause.]

  I will call your attention to one such subject that seems to me to
  be worthy of your thought. It is the reform of our election laws.
  [Applause and cries of "That's it!"] A constitutional amendment, to
  which a great majority of our people gave their sanction, has removed
  the impediments which stood in the way of progressive legislation in
  the protection of an honest ballot in Indiana. Formerly we could not
  require a definite period of residence in the voting precinct. Now we
  may and have. The same amendment authorized our Legislature to enact
  a just and strict registry law, which will enable the inspectors
  properly to verify the claims of those who offer a ballot. Every
  safeguard of law should be thrown around the ballot-box until fraud
  in voting and frauds in counting shall receive the sure penalties of
  law as well as the reprobation of all good men. [Great applause.] The
  Republican party has always stood for election reforms. No measure
  tending to secure the ballot-box against fraud has ever been opposed
  by its representatives. I am not here to make imputations; I submit
  this general suggestion: Find me the party that sets the gate of
  election frauds open, or holds it open, and I will show you the party
  that expects to drive cattle that way. [Applause.] Let us as citizens,
  irrespective of party, unite to exalt the name of Indiana by making
  her election laws models of justice and severity, and her elections
  free from the taint of suspicion. [Great applause.] And now, as I must
  presently speak to other delegations, I am sure my Rush County friends
  will allow me to close these remarks. [Applause and cheers.]

The visitors from Decatur and Delaware counties were received together.
The Decatur delegation numbered fifteen hundred, led by B. F. Bennett,
John F. Goddard, V. P. Harris, J. J. Hazelrigg, Geo. Anderson, Edward
Speer, A. G. Fisher, F. M. Sherwood, and A. S. Creath, of Greensburg.
Their spokesman was the Hon. Will Cumback. Delaware County sent twelve
organizations, conspicuous among which were the Tippecanoe Club, the
Veterans Regiment, and Lincoln Colored Club. Among the leaders of the
delegation were ex-Senator M. C. Smith, A. F. Collins, Hon. James N.
Templer, Major J. F. Wildman, Rev. T. S. Guthrie, J. D. Hoyt, Geo. F.
McCulloch, W. W. Orr, Joseph G. Lefler, Lee Coffeen, C. F. W. Neely,
Ed. R. Templer, W. H. Murray, W. H. Stokes, John S. Aldredge, J. R.
Shoemaker, Jacob Stiffler, Web S. Richey, T. H. Johnson and others, of
Muncie. Rev. N. L. Bray spoke on behalf of the Lincoln Club, but R. S.
Gregory delivered the address for the delegation as a whole.

In reply to these several addresses General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--The man who does not believe that the issues of this
  campaign have taken a very deep hold upon the minds and upon the
  hearts of the American people would do well to come and stand with
  me and look into the faces of the masses who gather here. I know
  nothing of the human face if I do not read again in your faces and
  eyes the lesson I have read here from day to day, and it is this: That
  the thinking, intelligent, God-fearing and self-respecting citizens
  of this country believe there are issues at stake that demand their
  earnest effort. [Applause.] A campaign that is one simply of party
  management, a campaign by committees and public speakers, may fail;
  but a campaign to which the men and women of the country give their
  unselfish and earnest efforts can never fail. [Great applause.]

  It is no personal interest in the candidate that stirs these
  emotions in your hearts; it is the belief that questions are involved
  affecting your prosperity and the prosperity of your neighbors;
  affecting the dignity of the nation; affecting the generation to which
  you will presently leave the government which our fathers built and
  you have saved. [Applause.]

  One subject is never omitted by those who speak for these visiting
  delegations, viz.: the protective tariff. The purpose not to permit
  American wages to be brought below the level of comfortable living,
  and competence, and hope, by competition with the pauper labor of
  Europe, has taken a very strong hold upon our people. [Applause.] And
  of kin to this suggestion and purpose is this other: that we will not
  permit this country to be made the dumping-ground of foreign pauperism
  and crime. [Great applause.] There are some who profess to be eager to
  exclude paupers and Chinese laborers, and at the same time advocate
  a policy that brings the American workman into competition with the
  product of cheap foreign labor. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"]
  The disastrous effects upon our workingmen and working-women of
  competition with cheap, underpaid labor are not obviated by keeping
  the cheap worker over the sea if the product of his cheap labor is
  allowed free competition in our market. We should protect our people
  against competition with the products of underpaid labor abroad as
  well as against the coming to our shores of paupers, laborers under
  contract, and the Chinese labor. [Enthusiastic applause.] These two
  thoughts are twin thoughts; the same logic supports both; and the
  Republican party holds them as the dual conclusion of one great
  argument.

  Now, gentlemen, to the first voters, who come with the high impulse
  of recruits into this strife; to these old men, seasoned veterans of
  many a contest, and to these colored friends, whose fidelity has been
  conspicuous, I give my thanks and hearty greetings. [Applause.] There
  has been a desire expressed that the reception of these delegations
  should be individualized; that Delaware should be received by itself,
  and Decatur separately; but that is not possible. You are one in
  thought and purpose; and if I am not able to individualize your
  reception by counties, I will, so far as I can, now make it absolutely
  individual by greeting each one of you.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 17.


Delegations from Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, aggregating between nine
and ten thousand visitors, paid their respects to the Republican nominee
on the seventeenth of August.

The Ohio delegation came from Bellefontaine, Logan County, led by Judge
William Lawrence. They carried a beautiful old silk banner that had been
presented to a Logan County club at the hands of Gen. Wm. Henry Harrison
in 1840.

Ford County, Illinois, sent a large delegation, headed by Judge A.
Sample and Col. C. Bogardus, of Paxton. The Young Men's Club--Wm.
Ramsey, President, and the Paxton League--T. T. Thompson, President,
were conspicuous in this delegation.

The Kankakee County (Illinois) delegation, headed by the Republican club
of the City of Kankakee in campaign uniforms, was led by Judge T. S.
Sawyer, D. H. Paddock, F. S. Hatch, W. F. Kenoga, H. L. Richardson, J.
F. Leonard, R. D. Sherman, Geo. R. Letourneau, and Judge J. N. Orr.

Morgan County, Illinois, contributed the largest delegation of the day,
over two thousand, with three drum corps, one, the Jacksonville Juvenile
Drum Corps, led by Thomas Barbour, aged 81. Prominent in the Morgan
delegation were C. G. Rutledge, President Young Men's Republican Club,
B. F. Hilligass, D. M. Simmons, Dr. P. G. Gillett, Sam'l W. Nichols,
Judge M. T. Layman, J. G. Loomis, A. P. and J. M. Smith, veterans of
'40, and Henry Yates, son of Illinois' war Governor--all of Jacksonville.

The Indiana visitors came from three counties--Bartholomew, Johnson, and
Vermilion.

The Bartholomew contingent was composed largely of veterans of the late
war, who were led by a company of their daughters in uniform. Among
their representative members were John C. Orr, W. W. Lambert, John H.
Taylor, John F. Ott, J. W. Morgan, John Sharp, T. B. Prother, Andrew
Perkinson, and H. Rost, of Columbus.

The Johnson County delegation numbered two thousand, led by W. T.
Pritchard, D. W. Barnett, Jessie Overstreet, J. H. Vannuys, I. M.
Thompson, Jacob Hazlett, and John Brown, of Franklin.

Vermilion County sent fifteen hundred enthusiastic visitors, commanded
by A. J. Ralph, Marshal of the delegation. Other leaders were Hon. R. B.
Sears, W. L. Porter, Rob't A. Parrett, S. B. Davis, R. H. Nixon, Geo. H.
Fisher, and Andrew Curtis, of Newport.

The speakers on behalf of these several delegations were: Hon. William
Lawrence, of Ohio; Hon. Frank L. Cook, Paxton, Ill.; Judge C. R. Starr,
Kankakee County, Ill.; Prof. Wm. D. Saunders, Jacksonville, Ill.; Major
W. T. Strickland, Bartholomew County, Ind.; Col. Sam'l P. Oyler,
Johnson County, Ind.; Hon. H. H. Connelly, Vermilion County, Ind. To
these addresses General Harrison responded as follows:

  _My Friends_--The magnitude of this gathering, I fear, quite
  out-reaches the capacity of my voice. It is so great and so cordial,
  it has been accompanied by so many kind expressions, that my heart is
  deeply touched--too deeply to permit of extended or connected speech.
  I return most cordially the greetings of these friends from Ohio,
  Indiana, and Illinois [cheers], a trio of great States lying in this
  great valley, endowed by nature with a productive capacity that rivals
  the famous valley of the Nile, populated by a people unsurpassed in
  intelligence, manly independence and courage. [Applause and cheers.]
  The association of these States to-day brings to my mind the fact
  that in the brigade with which I served Indiana, Ohio and Illinois
  were represented [applause]--three regiments from Illinois, the One
  Hundred and Second, the One Hundred and Fifth and the One Hundred and
  Twenty-ninth; one from Ohio, the Seventy-ninth, and one from Indiana,
  the Seventieth Infantry. I have seen the men of these States stand
  together in the evening parade. I have seen them also charge together
  in battle, and die together for the flag they loved [great applause],
  and when the battle was over I have seen the dead gathered from the
  field they had enriched with their blood and laid side by side in
  a common grave. Again you evidence by your coming that these great
  States have in peace common interests and common sympathies. The
  Republican party has always been hospitable to the truth. [Applause
  and laughter.] It has never shunned debate. It has boldly, and in
  the courage of the principles it has advocated, opened the lists and
  challenged all comers. It has never found it necessary or consistent
  with its great principles to suppress free discussion of any question.
  There is not a Republican community where any man may not advocate
  without fear his political beliefs. [Cries of "That's so!"] There is
  not a Republican voting precinct where any man, whatever may have been
  his relations to the flag during the war, may not freely exercise his
  right to vote. [Cheers.] There is not one such precinct where the
  right of a Confederate soldier freely to cast the ballot of his choice
  would not be defended by the Union veterans of the war. [Applause
  and cries of "That's true!"] Our party is tolerant of political
  differences. It has always yielded to others all that it demanded for
  itself. It has been intolerant of but one thing: disloyalty to the
  flag and to the Union of States. [Great applause.] It has had the
  good fortune to set in the Constitution and in the permanent laws of
  our country many of the great principles for which it has contended.
  It has not only persuaded a majority of our thinking people, but it
  has had the unusual fortune to compel those who opposed it to give a
  belated assent to every great principle it has supported.

  Now, gentlemen, I am sure you will excuse further speech. What I say
  here must necessarily be very general. It would not be in good taste
  for me to make too close or too personal an application of Republican
  principles. [Laughter and applause and cries of "You're a dandy!"]

  I do not know what to say further. I have up to this time greeted
  personally all those who came. My courage is a little shaken as I
  look upon this vast multitude, but for a time, at least--so long as
  I can, and to those who especially desire it, I will give a personal
  greeting. [Great and prolonged applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 18.


The commercial travelling men, and their friends, from the cities of
Peoria, Bloomington, Terre Haute, and Lafayette, about a thousand in
number, paid their respects to General Harrison on the afternoon of the
18th of August. The Bloomington delegation was led by J. H. Sprague and
Dan Van Elsler, the Peoria Club by J. G. Jones. Each delegation was
escorted by a splendid band.

They were met and escorted to the Harrison residence by a committee from
the Indianapolis Commercial Travellers' Association, comprising G. C.
Webster, C. H. McPherson, John V. Parker, W. H. Schmidt, D. W. Coffin,
Harry Gates, R. K. Syfers, W. F. Winchester, Wm. Sisson, T. P. Swain,
C. L. Schmidt, Ed. Finney, O. W. Moorman, Charles Lefler, M. P. Green,
J. L. Barnhardt, Berg. Applegate, G. R. Rhoads, Hon. J. H. Rowell, of
Bloomington; and Hon. J. S. Starr of Peoria spoke on behalf of the
visitors. General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen of the Commercial Travellers' Association of Peoria,
  Bloomington, Lafayette, and Terre Haute_--I thank you for this most
  cordial and beautiful demonstration. The respect of such a body of men
  is a valuable acquisition. But I am particularly glad that a class so
  large and so influential, and one that touches so many communities,
  is loyally and earnestly devoted to the principles of the Republican
  party. I have travelled somewhat in the wake of the commercial men,
  and have observed that they have the habit of getting the best of
  everything wherever they go. [Applause and laughter. A voice: "That's
  the reason we are here!"] I am therefore quite ready to credit the
  statement of the gentleman who has just spoken in your behalf when he
  tells me that the commercial travellers are all Republicans. [Applause
  and cries of "He was right!"] I should expect they would get the best
  politics that were to be found. [Laughter and applause.]

  Your calling is an active one--you are always on the move. You are
  quick to discover the wants of local trade. You are persuasive in
  speech and address; you are honest for the love of integrity, and do
  not forget that you must again face your customer after the goods are
  delivered. [Laughter and applause.] The men who employed you have
  chosen you, picked you out, and they subject you to the weekly test
  of success. You have been proved and not found wanting. The wide
  intercourse you have with your fellow-men and the wide view you get of
  our country must tend to make you liberal and patriotic.

  The provincialism that once existed in this country has largely
  disappeared, and the commercial travellers have been an important
  agency in bringing this about. This going to and fro has given you a
  fuller comprehension, not only of the extent of this country, but of
  the greatness and unity of its people. [Cheers.] I have thought that
  the prophet Daniel must have had a vision of the commercial travellers
  when he said that in the last days many should run to and fro and
  knowledge should be increased. [Laughter and applause.]

  You will not expect me to enter upon the discussion of any of the
  topics which have been suggested by those who have spoken for you.
  Most of them I have already alluded to in public speech since my
  nomination, and upon some of them I have spoken more fully before.
  Let me suggest but this one thought: Do not allow any one to persuade
  you that this great contest as to our tariff policy is one between
  schedules. It is not a question of a seven per cent. reduction.
  [Applause.] It is a question between wide-apart principles. [Cries of
  "That's right!"]

  The principle of protection, the intelligent recognition in the
  framing of our tariff laws of the duty to protect our American
  industries and maintain the American scale of wages by adequate
  discriminating duties [cries of "That's right!" "That's it!"] on the
  one hand, and on the other a denial of the constitutional right to
  make our customs duties protective, or the assertion of the doctrine
  that free competition with foreign products is the ideal condition to
  which all our legislation should tend. [Applause.]

  Let me now, in behalf not only of myself, but of my family, thank
  you for your visit and ask you to enter our home. [Applause.]




TOLEDO, OHIO, AUGUST 21.


General Harrison left Indianapolis on the morning of August 21, '88, for
a two weeks' outing and vacation at Middle Bass Island, Lake Erie, where
he was the guest--upon invitation of ex-Gov. Charles Foster, of Ohio--of
the Middle Bass Fishing Club, Mather Shoemaker, Sr., President.

He was accompanied by Mrs. Harrison, Judge Wm. A. Woods and wife, Miss
Woods, Samuel Miller, and representatives of the Associated Press and
Cincinnati _Commercial-Gazette_.

His departure was not generally known, consequently there was no
demonstration along the line until Defiance, Ohio, was reached, where
several hundred people had gathered. Hon. C. A. Flickinger delivered a
brief address of welcome.

General Harrison, speaking from the train, said:

  _Gentlemen_--I am very much obliged to you for this reception. You
  will excuse me, I am sure, for not attempting to make any speech.
  This evidence of your friendly feeling is gratifying to me. We were
  intending to travel to-day in quietness, and I am confident you will
  conform to our wishes in that respect by allowing me to say simply,
  "How do you do" and "Good-by."

Toledo was reached early in the evening, and several thousand citizens
and militia welcomed the distinguished travellers. A committee of
reception, comprising James M. Brown, Chairman, Mayor Hamilton, Hon.
E. D. Potter, J. C. Bonner, John Berdan, C. A. King, Calvin Barker,
Fred Eaton, Col. S. C. Reynolds, Judge R. F. Doyle, Judge Joseph
Cummings, Hon. John F. Kumler, Hon. Richard Waite, Wm. Baker, and Judge
Austin, escorted General Harrison and his party to the residence of Wm.
Cummings, whose guests they were. At night an open-air mass-meeting was
held in Memorial Hall Square, where ten thousand men assembled. Gov.
Foster spoke at length, and was followed by General Harrison, who was
introduced by Hon. J. M. Brown, President of the Executive Committee
United Republican Clubs, and spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--You have already been told that this reception was
  not planned by me, and yet I do not regret that I have yielded to
  the urgent solicitation of your representatives and have consented
  to stand for a few moments in the presence of this magnificent
  and instructive audience. [Applause.] I say instructive, for that
  public man is dull indeed who does not gather both instruction and
  inspiration from such meetings as this. [Applause.] I thank you for
  any measure of personal respect and interest which your coming here
  to-night may witness, but I do not see in this immense gathering any
  testimony that is personal to me. I prefer to regard it as another
  witness added to the long number I have seen before of the deep-seated
  and earnest interest of our people in the public questions that are
  to be settled in November. [Applause.] I choose rather to regard it
  as a pledge that this interest you manifest in me to-night will not
  stop here, but is the pledge of continued and earnest personal work
  by each one of you for those principles which have won the consent of
  your minds and the love of your hearts. [Applause.] I cannot enter
  in any detail into the discussion of public questions; I would not
  at all put myself between you and these great, important issues. I
  would, in all I may say, put them to the front. We are here citizens
  of a great, prosperous, magnificent Nation. We have common interests.
  We are here charged with the common duties to perpetuate, if we can,
  the prosperity and to maintain the honor of this great Republic.
  [Applause.] We are here to-night in the enjoyment of free government.
  We are here in the individual possession of better opportunities of
  development, of a larger prosperity, and of more individual comfort
  than are possessed by any other people in the world. [Applause.] The
  great economic question as to what shall be our future legislative
  policy is stated with a distinctness in this campaign that it has
  never had before, and I believe the verdict and decision will have an
  emphasis and finality that it has never had before. [Applause.] If
  there is any one here present to-night that knows of any land that
  spreads a more promising sky of hope above the heads of the poor and
  the laboring man than this, I would be glad if he would name it. The
  one fact that I do not need to stop to demonstrate by statistics,
  the one fact that I could call out of this vast audience hundreds of
  witnesses to support by their personal testimony, is that the scale of
  American wages is higher than that of any other country in the world.
  [Applause.] If this were not true, why is it that the workingmen and
  the working-women of the older lands turn their faces hitherward? If
  there is a better country, one that offers better wages, fuller hopes
  than this, why is it that those who are in quest of such better things
  have not found it out and turned their faces thitherward? Now, if that
  is true, then why is it true, and how is it to be continued--this
  condition of our country? It is because, and only because, we have for
  years, by our protective tariff, discriminated in favor of American
  manufacturers and American workingmen. [Applause.] Strike down this
  protective system, bring our workingmen and working-women in equal
  competition in the products of their toil with those who labor abroad,
  and nothing is clearer than that these mills and factories must reduce
  wages here to the level with wages abroad, or they must shut down. You
  have the choice to make; you, the free citizens of this country, whose
  ballots sway its destiny, will settle these questions in November.
  [Applause.] I ask you how? Don't be deceived by the suggestion that
  this is any contest over a seven per cent. reduction in the tariff
  schedule. We are allowed now to say, I think, that all those who
  are entitled to speak for the Democratic party have declared that
  it is opposed to protection. That being so, the issue is clearly,
  distinctly, strongly drawn. I beg you all--not in my interest, but
  in your own; in the interest of your families and the country you
  love--to ponder this question; to think upon it with that seriousness
  its importance demands, and when you have thought it out, settle it,
  settle it in November, so that we shall be free for years to come from
  this agitation in behalf of free trade. [Great applause.]

  I thank you again for this kindly demonstration. I beg you to accept
  these brief suggestions as the only but inadequate return that I can
  make you for this kindness. [Applause.]




PUT-IN-BAY, OHIO, AUGUST 31.


The residents of Put-in-Bay Island, about five hundred in number,
tendered General Harrison a reception on the thirty-first of August. The
steamboats from Cleveland, Detroit, Toledo, and Sandusky brought several
thousand excursionists. General Harrison and his party on their arrival
from Middle Bass Island were met at the pier by all the residents of
Put-in-Bay Island, headed by their most distinguished citizen John
Brown, Jr., son of the celebrated "Ossawatomie" Brown, of Harper's Ferry
fame.

From a pavilion in the adjacent grove John Brown introduced Hon. Charles
Foster, who said:

  _Fellow-citizens_--General Harrison came to Middle Bass for the
  purpose of rest and quiet. At the solicitation of a number of people
  of this section of country--a great number, I might say--he has kindly
  consented to give a reception here to-day, upon one condition--that
  he was not to make a speech. Now, fellow-citizens, I have the very
  great pleasure of presenting to you General Benjamin Harrison, the
  Republican candidate for the presidency. [Applause.]

As Governor Foster concluded, General Harrison arose midst a shout of
welcome and spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--I have found Governor Foster to be a very agreeable
  and thoughtful host, and I find him to-day to be the most agreeable
  master of ceremonies who has ever attended me at a public reception. I
  like his announcement of the condition under which I appear before you
  to-day.

  I never enjoy a banquet when my name is on the programme for a
  toast. I do not, therefore, intend to speak to you about any of those
  questions that are engaging your minds as citizens of this prosperous
  and mighty and happy Nation. We are here to-day as Americans, proud
  of the flag that symbolizes this great Union of States; proud of the
  story that has been written by our fathers in council and in war,
  in the formation and defence and perpetuation of our magnificent
  institutions, We are here in the immediate neighborhood of one of
  those great historic events that was among the most potential
  agencies in settling our title to the great Northwest. If we had stood
  where we stand to-day we could have heard the guns of Perry's fleet.
  If we had stood where we stand to-day we could have welcomed him as he
  came a victor into Put-in-Bay.

  These institutions of ours are in our own keeping now, and not
  only our fundamental institutions, but the fame that has been won
  by those who have gone before. I may therefore properly say to-day
  that a campaign like this demands the thoughtful consideration of
  every American voter. We are prosperous. [Cheers.] The story of our
  prosperity, of our development in wealth, of our achievements in
  finance as a Nation, since and during the war, is almost as notable
  and almost as admirable as that of our achievements in arms.

  The assembling of our revenue was even more difficult than the
  assembling of armies, and yet we were able to maintain those armies in
  the field, and have been able since not only to bear up the great load
  of debt, but to pay it off, until that which was once thought to be
  a burden that would crush our industries has come to be in our hands
  but as the ball the boy tosses in play [cheers]; and we are to-day
  confronted with the question, not how we shall get money, but how we
  shall wisely stop some of those avenues by which wealth is pouring
  into our public treasury.

  It is an easier problem than that which confronted the great war
  Secretary, in whose name you so delight--how to raise revenue to
  prosecute the war successfully. It will be wisely solved. And may I
  note also the fact that, notwithstanding this complaint of excessive
  revenue, there are some who suggest that they are not able adequately
  to arouse the popular indignation against excessive taxation because
  they cannot disclose to the people when or how they are paying the
  taxes? [Applause.] It is taken, they say, so indirectly and so subtly
  that these--our plain people--don't know that they are paying them at
  all. [Applause.] But I must not cross this line of party discussion.
  I have had a pleasant stay in this most delightful neighborhood, and
  I cannot let this public opportunity pass without expressing, for
  myself and for Mrs. Harrison, our grateful appreciation of the kind
  and thoughtful hospitality which has been shown to us by the people of
  these islands. [Prolonged applause.]




FORT WAYNE, IND., SEPTEMBER 4, 1888.


General Harrison and party, _en route_ home from Middle Bass Island,
arrived at Toledo on the evening of Sept. 3, and were again the guests
of Wm. Cummings. At night they were tendered a reception by Mr. and Mrs.
John Berdan, at their residence.

On the morning of Sept. 4 the party started homeward. The first stop was
at Fort Wayne, where several thousand Hoosiers welcomed their leader.
Supt. Wall, of the Pittsburg and Fort Wayne Railroad, introduced the
general, who spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--I desire to thank you for this cordial demonstration.
  I thank you not so much for myself as for the party to which most of
  us have given the consent of our minds. I am glad to know that the
  people are moved to a thoughtful consideration of those questions
  which are this year presented for their determination. Under a popular
  government like ours it is of the first importance that every man
  who votes should have some reason for his vote; that every man who
  attaches himself to this or that political party should intelligently
  understand both the creed and the purposes of the party to which he
  belongs. I think it is universally conceded by Democrats as well
  as by Republicans that the questions involved in this campaign do
  have a very direct bearing upon the national prosperity, and upon
  the prosperity and welfare of the individual citizen. I think it is
  conceded that the result of this election will affect beneficently
  or injuriously our great manufacturing interests, and will affect
  for weal or for woe the workingmen and working-women who fill these
  busy hives of industry. [Applause.] This much is conceded. I do not
  intend to-day to argue the question in any detail. I want to call
  your attention to a few general facts and principles, and the first
  one--the one I never tire of mentioning; the one I deem so important
  that I do not shun the charge that I am repeating myself--is this:
  that the condition of the wage-workers of America is better than that
  of the wage-workers of any other country in the world. [Applause.]
  Now, if that be true, it is important that you should each find out
  why it is so; that each one of you should determine for himself what
  effect a protective tariff has had and is likely to have upon his
  wages and his prosperity. Does it need to be demonstrated that if
  we reduce our tariff to a revenue level, if we abolish from it every
  consideration of protection, more goods will come in from abroad than
  come in now? And what is the necessary effect? It is the transfer to
  foreign shops of work that you need here; it is to diminish American
  production and increase English production.

  That is to be the effect of it. It is, not worth while to stand
  upon nice definitions as to free trade. Some think it enough to say
  that they are not free-traders because they are not in favor of
  abolishing all customs duties. Let me remind such that the free-trade
  countries of Europe, recognized to be such, have not abolished
  all customs duties. A better distinction is this: The free-trader
  believes in levying customs duties without any regard to the effect
  of those duties upon the wages of our working people, or upon the
  production of our own shops. This, then, is the issue. Take it to
  your homes. There are many confusing and contradictory statements
  made in the public press and by public speakers. Ask any of those
  who assail our protective system whether they do not believe that if
  their policy is adopted a larger amount of foreign-made goods will
  come into this country. It is their purpose to increase importation
  in order to cheapen prices. I think I may safely ask you to consider
  the question whether this cheapening of prices, which they seem to
  regard as the highest attainment of statesmanship, is consistent with
  the rate of wages that our working people enjoy now, whether it will
  not involve--if we are to have foreign competition without favoring
  duties--a reduction of American wages to the standard of the wages
  paid abroad. [Applause.] Do you believe for one moment that two
  factories making the same product can be maintained in competition
  when one pays thirty-three per cent. more to its workingmen than
  the other? Is it not certain that wages must be equalized in those
  competing establishments or the one paying the higher wages must
  shut down? [Applause and cries, "That's the thing!"] Here in this
  city of Fort Wayne, so important and so prosperous, we have a fine
  illustration of the accruing advantages of a large factory and shop
  population. It has made your city prosperous as well as populous, and
  it has made these outlying Allen County farms vastly more valuable
  than they otherwise would have been. These interests harmonize. But
  I only want to ask you to think upon these questions; settle them in
  your own minds, for it is agreed by all that, as they shall be settled
  one way or the other, your interests and those of your families and
  of this community, and of every other like community in this country,
  are to be affected, favorably or unfavorably. May I not appeal to you
  to review these questions, to throw off the shackles of preconceived
  notions and of party prejudices, and consider them anew in the light
  of all the information that is accessible to you? If you shall do
  that I do not doubt that the working people of this country will this
  November forever settle the question that American customs duties
  shall by intention, by forethought, have regard to the wages of our
  working people. [Applause.]

  And now, if you will pardon further speech, I shall be glad to avail
  myself of the arrangements which the committee have provided to greet
  personally any of you who may desire to greet me. [Prolonged applause
  and cheers.]




HUNTINGTON, IND., SEPTEMBER 4.


The next stop was at Huntington, where two thousand people were
congregated.

In response to repeated calls General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--Our stop here is altogether too brief for me to
  attempt to speak; yet I cannot refrain from expressing to you, my
  friends of Huntington County, my sincere and grateful appreciation for
  the evidence of your kindness in welcoming me so cordially to my home
  after a brief absence. I have not travelled very far this time, but
  I have seen nothing either on this visit, or any more extended visit
  that I have heretofore made, to win away my interests and affection
  from the great State of Indiana. [Great applause.] It is great in the
  capabilities, both of its soil and its citizenship [applause]; great
  in its achievements during the war. When our country was imperilled
  no State more nobly or magnificently responded to the demands which
  were made by the general Government for men to fight and to die for
  the flag. [Applause.] I am glad to greet in this audience to-day my
  comrades of the war, and all who have gathered here. I beg to thank
  you again for your kindness.




PERU, IND., SEPTEMBER 4.


At Peru a committee, headed by Hon. A. C. Bearss and Giles W. Smith,
waited upon General Harrison, who addressed an audience of over two
thousand as follows:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for that kindness of
  feeling which your gathering here to-day evinces. I have had a brief
  visit for rest, and I am come back to my home with very kind feelings
  toward my friends in Indiana, who have, not only during this important
  campaign, but always, when I have appealed to them, treated me with
  the utmost consideration. I have not time to-day to discuss the issues
  of this campaign. They are extremely important, and they will have
  a direct bearing upon the prosperity of our country. I can only ask
  you to think of them, and not to mistake the issue. It is very plain.
  It is the question of whether our tariff laws shall be a protection
  to American workingmen and a protection to American manufacturing
  establishments. Those who advocate tariff for revenue only do not take
  any thought of our wage-workers, but let their interests take care
  of themselves. On the other hand the Republican party believes that
  high regard should be paid to the question what the effect will be
  upon wages and upon the protection of our American shops. Those who
  believe the doctrine agree with us; and those who assail it, and say
  it is unconstitutional, as has recently been said by a distinguished
  citizen, would destroy our protective system if they could. We must
  believe so, because we must impute to them sincerity in what they
  say. I believe this campaign will settle for many years to come the
  question of whether legislation shall be intelligently directed in
  favor of the doctrine that we will, so far as may be, see that our
  farmers may find home consumers for their home product, and that these
  populous manufacturing centres may give a larger value to the farms
  that lie about them. You have these questions to settle. They affect
  your interests as citizens. I am sure that everything that regards
  them, as well as everything that regards the candidate, may be safely
  left in the kind hands of these intelligent citizens of Indiana and of
  the United States. [Great cheering.]




KOKOMO, IND., SEPTEMBER 4.


The city of Kokomo welcomed the party in the evening with a brilliant
illumination by natural gas. Three thousand people were present. General
Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--I very much appreciate this spontaneous evidence of
  your friendliness. That so many of you should have gathered here this
  evening to greet us on our return home after a brief absence from the
  State is very gratifying to me. Kokomo has been for many years a very
  prosperous place. It has been the happy home of a very intelligent and
  very thrifty people. You are now, however, realizing a development
  more rapid and much greater than the most sanguine among you could
  have anticipated three years ago. The large increase in the number
  and business of your manufacturing establishments, the coming here
  from other parts of the country of enterprising men with their capital
  to set up manufacturing plants, has excited your interest and has
  promoted your development. There is not a resident of Kokomo, there
  is not a resident of Howard County, who does not rejoice in this
  great prosperity. I am sure there is not a man or woman in this city
  who does not realize that this new condition of things gives to your
  boys, who are growing up, new avenues of useful thrift. It opens to
  those who might otherwise have pursued common labor access to skilled
  trades and higher compensation. There is not a merchant in Kokomo who
  does not appreciate the added trade which comes to his store. There
  is not a farmer in Howard County who has not realized the benefits
  of a home market for his crops [applause and cries of "Good!"], and
  especially for those perishable products of the farm which do not bear
  distant transportation. Now I submit to your consideration, in the
  light of these new facts, whether you have not a very deep interest in
  the protection of our domestic industries and the maintenance of the
  American standard of wages. There can be no mistaking the issue this
  year. In previous campaigns it has been observed by evasive platform
  declarations. It is now so clear that all men can understand it. I
  would leave this thought with you: Will the prosperity that is now
  realized by you, and that greater prosperity which you anticipate, be
  better advanced by the continuance of the protective policy or by its
  destruction?




TIPTON, IND., SEPTEMBER 4.


At Tipton Junction, where several hundred people had congregated,
General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--There is no time this evening for me to say more than
  that I thank you very sincerely for this cordial evidence of your
  kindly feeling. I will not have time to discuss any public questions.
  You will consider them for yourselves, and can have ready access to
  all necessary information.




NOBLESVILLE, IND., SEPTEMBER 4.


At Noblesville the train was met by a special from Indianapolis, bearing
the Columbia Club, a uniformed organization of three hundred prominent
young men, who had come to escort General Harrison to his home.

To the assembled citizens of Noblesville the general said:

  _My Friends_--You are very kind, and I am grateful for this
  manifestation of your kindness. I cannot speak to you at any length
  to-night. You are in the "gas belt" of Indiana. The result of the
  discovery of this new fuel has been the rapid development of your
  towns. You have shown your enterprise by hospitably opening the way
  for the coming of new industrial enterprises. You have felt it worth
  while not only to invite them, but to offer pecuniary inducements for
  them to come. If it has been worth while to do so much in the hope
  of developing your town and to add value to your farms by making a
  home market for your farm product, is it not also worth your while
  so to vote this fall as to save and enlarge these new industrial
  enterprises? [Applause.] Let me acknowledge a new debt of gratitude
  to my friends of Hamilton County, who have often before made me their
  debtor, and bid you good-night.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 4.


The home-coming of General Harrison was a veritable ovation. Fifteen
thousand people greeted and accompanied him to his residence, led by
the Columbia Club, the Veterans' Regiment, and the Railroad Men's Club.
Escorted by Gen. Foster, Daniel M. Ransdell, and W. N. Harding, General
Harrison--standing in his own door--facing the great assembly, said:

  _My Friends_--Two weeks ago to-day I left Indianapolis quietly
  for a brief season of rest. We met in Ohio very considerate and
  hospitable friends, who allowed nothing to be lacking to the enjoyment
  and comfort of our brief vacation. But, notwithstanding all the
  attractions of that island home in Lake Erie, we are to-night very
  happy to be again at home. The enthusiastic welcome you have extended
  to us has added grace and joy. I think I may conclude that nothing has
  happened since I have been gone that has disturbed your confidence
  or diminished your respect. [Great applause and cries of "No! no!"]
  At the outset of this campaign I said I would confidently commit all
  that was personal to myself to the keeping of the intelligent and
  fair-minded citizens of Indiana. [Applause.] We will go on our way in
  this campaign upon that high and dignified plane upon which it has
  been pitched, so far as it lay in our power, commending the principles
  of our party to the intelligent interest of our fellow-citizens,
  and trusting to truth and right for the victory. [Applause.] Most
  gratefully I acknowledge the affectionate interest which has been
  shown to-night by my old comrades of the war. [Applause.] I am glad
  to know that in this veteran organization there are many who have
  heretofore differed with me in political opinion, but who are drawn
  in this campaign, by a sense of our common interests, to cast in
  their influence with us. I desire also to thank the Railroad Club
  for their kind greetings. There has been a special significance in
  their friendly organization, and I am grateful, also, to the members
  of the Columbia Club for their part in this demonstration. Now, with
  an overwhelming sense of inability to respond fittingly to your
  cordiality and kindness, I can only thank you once more and bid you
  good-night. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 6.


On the night of Sept. 6 General Harrison, in company with General A.
P. Hovey, Ex-Gov. A. G. Porter, Hon. James N. Huston, Hon. R. B. F.
Pierce, Judge Walker, and other friends, reviewed from the balcony of
the New-Denison Hotel ten thousand marching Republicans.

It was one of the most brilliant and successful demonstrations of the
campaign. The great line was composed of eighty-two Republican clubs and
associations of the city of Indianapolis, commanded by Chief Marshal
Hon. Geo. W. Spahr, assisted by the following mounted aids: Major Geo.
Herriott, Moses G. McLain, Dan'l M. Ransdell, Thomas F. Ryan, W. H.
H. Miller, John B. Elam, Dr. Austin Morris, Col. I. N. Walker, Wm.
L. Taylor, W. A. Pattison, Capt. O. H. Hibben, Charles Murray, Ed.
Thompson, Charles Wright, S. D. Pray, J. E. Haskell, Wm. Thomas, W.
H. Tucker, Joseph Forbes, Ed. Harmon, Lou Wade, John W. Bowlus, M. L.
Johnson, Miles Reynolds, W. E. Tousey, R. H. Rees, and W. D. Wiles.

The column was divided into four divisions, commanded by Col. N. R.
Ruckle, Col. James B. Black, Horace McKay, and Hon. Stanton J. Peelle. A
great mass-meeting followed the parade, and the issues of the campaign
were presented by General Hovey, Gov. Porter and Hon. John M. Butler.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 8.


General Harrison on this date received perhaps the most unique
delegation of the campaign: a band of one hundred girls and misses, aged
from seven to fifteen years, organized by Mrs. Mattie McCorkle. At their
head rode Master Charles Pettijohn, six years old, mounted upon a pony,
followed by a drum corps of eight young boys. The girls marched four
abreast, dressed in uniforms of red, white and blue, carrying mounted
Japanese lanterns. They were commanded by Miss Florence Schilling. After
singing "Marching through Georgia," Master Pettijohn, on behalf of the
young ladies, presented the general a handsome bouquet and made an
address. General Harrison honored the young orator and the club with a
speech, and said:

  When some one asked this afternoon, over the telephone, if I would
  receive some children who wanted to pay me a visit, I gave a very
  cheerful consent, because I thought I saw a chance to have a good
  time. That you little ones would demand a speech from me never entered
  my mind, nor did I expect to see a company so prettily uniformed and
  so well drilled, both in marching and in song.

  Children have always been attractive to me. I have found not only
  entertainment but instruction in their companionship. Little ones
  often say wise things. In the presence of such a company as this, one
  who has any aspirations for the things that are good and pure cannot
  fail to have them strengthened. The kind words you have addressed to
  me in song come, I am sure, from sincere and loving hearts, and I am
  very grateful for them and for your visit. Some of the best friends I
  have are under ten years of age, and after to-night I am sure I shall
  have many more, for all your names will be added.

  And now I hope you will all come in where we can see you and show
  you whatever there is in our home to interest you. I would like you
  all to feel that we will be glad if you will come to see us often.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 10.


General Harrison's visitors to-day comprised six hundred G. A. R.
veterans and their wives from Northwestern Kansas--_en route_ to the
Grand Encampment--under the lead of General W. H. Caldwell, Frank
McGrath, C. E. Monell, W. S. Search, Dr. A. Patten, J. W. Garner, and
Dr. J. R. King, of Beloit, Kan. Colonel W. C. Whitney, Commander of the
First Division, was orator, and assured General Harrison that "Kansas
grew more corn and more babies than any other State in the Union." In
response the General said:

  _My Comrades_--I have a choice to make and you have one. I can
  occupy the few moments I have to spare either in public address or
  in private, personal greeting. I think you would prefer, as I shall
  prefer, to omit the public speech that I may be presented to each of
  you. [Cries of "Good! Good!"] I beg you, therefore, to permit me only
  to say that I very heartily appreciate this greeting from my comrades
  of Kansas.

  The bond that binds us together as soldiers of the late war is one
  that is enduring and close. No party considerations can break it; it
  is stronger than political ties, and we are able thus in our Grand
  Army associations to come together upon that broad and high plane
  of fraternity, loyalty, and charity. [Applause and cries of "Good!
  Good!"] Let me now, if it be your pleasure, extend a comrade's hand to
  each of you. [Applause.]




GENERAL HARRISON'S LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE.


                        INDIANAPOLIS, IND., September 11, 1888.
  HON. M. M. ESTEE AND OTHERS, COMMITTEE, ETC.:

  _Gentlemen_--When your committee visited me, on the Fourth of July
  last, and presented the official announcement of my nomination for
  the presidency of the United States by the Republican convention, I
  promised as soon as practicable to communicate to you a more formal
  acceptance of the nomination. Since that time the work of receiving
  and addressing, almost daily, large delegations of my fellow-citizens
  has not only occupied all of my time, but has in some measure rendered
  it unnecessary for me to use this letter as a medium of communicating
  to the public my views upon the questions involved in the campaign. I
  appreciate very highly the confidence and respect manifested by the
  convention, and accept the nomination with a feeling of gratitude and
  a full sense of the responsibilities which accompany it.

  It is a matter of congratulation that the declarations of the
  Chicago convention upon the questions that now attract the interest
  of our people are so clear and emphatic. There is further cause of
  congratulation in the fact that the convention utterances of the
  Democratic party, if in any degree uncertain or contradictory, can
  now be judged and interpreted by executive acts and messages, and
  by definite propositions in legislation. This is especially true of
  what is popularly known as the Tariff question. The issue cannot
  now be obscured. It is not a contest between schedules, but between
  wide-apart principles. The foreign competitors for our market have,
  with quick instinct, seen how one issue of this contest may bring them
  advantage, and our own people are not so dull as to miss or neglect
  the grave interests that are involved for them. The assault upon our
  protective system is open and defiant. Protection is assailed as
  unconstitutional in law, or as vicious in principle, and those who
  hold such views sincerely cannot stop short of an absolute elimination
  from our tariff laws of the principle of protection. The Mills bill is
  only a step, but it is toward an object that the leaders of Democratic
  thought and legislation have clearly in mind. The important question
  is not so much the length of the step as the direction of it. Judged
  by the executive message of December last, by the Mills bill, by the
  debates in Congress, and by the St. Louis platform, the Democratic
  party will, if supported by the country, place the tariff laws upon a
  purely revenue basis. This is practical free trade--free trade in the
  English sense. The legend upon the banner may not be "Free Trade"--it
  may be the more obscure motto, "Tariff Reform;" but neither the banner
  nor the inscription is conclusive, or, indeed, very important. The
  assault itself is the important fact.

  Those who teach that the import duty upon foreign goods sold
  in our market is paid by the consumer, and that the price of the
  domestic competing article is enhanced to the amount of the duty
  on the imported article--that every million of dollars collected
  for customs duties represents many millions more which do not reach
  the treasury, but are paid by our citizens as the increased cost of
  domestic productions resulting from the tariff laws--may not intend
  to discredit in the minds of others our system of levying duties on
  competing foreign products, but it is clearly already discredited in
  their own. We cannot doubt, without impugning their integrity, that
  if free to act upon their convictions they would so revise our laws
  as to lay the burden of the customs revenue upon articles that are
  not produced in this country, and to place upon the free list all
  competing foreign products. I do not stop to refute this theory as to
  the effect of our tariff duties. Those who advance it are students
  of maxims and not of the markets. They may be safely allowed to call
  their project "Tariff Reform," if the people understand that in the
  end the argument compels free trade in all competing products. This
  end may not be reached abruptly, and its approach may be accompanied
  with some expressions of sympathy for our protected industries and our
  working people, but it will certainly come if these early steps do not
  arouse the people to effective resistance.

  The Republican party holds that a protective tariff is
  constitutional, wholesome, and necessary. We do not offer a fixed
  schedule, but a principle. We will revise the schedule, modify rates,
  but always with an intelligent provision as to the effect upon
  domestic productions and the wages of our working people. We believe
  it to be one of the worthy objects of tariff legislation to preserve
  the American market for American producers, and to maintain the
  American scale of wages by adequate discriminative duties upon foreign
  competing products. The effect of lower rates and larger importations
  upon the public revenue is contingent and doubtful, but not so the
  effect upon American production and American wages. Less work and
  lower wages must be accepted as the inevitable result of the increased
  offering of foreign goods in our market. By way of recompense for
  this reduction in his wages, and the loss of the American market, it
  is suggested that the diminished wages of the workingman will have an
  undiminished purchasing power, and that he will be able to make up
  for the loss of the home market by an enlarged foreign market. Our
  workingmen have the settlement of the question in their own hands.
  They now obtain higher wages and live more comfortably than those of
  any other country. They will make choice of the substantial advantages
  they have in hand and the deceptive promises and forecasts of these
  theorizing reformers. They will decide for themselves and for their
  country whether the protective system shall be continued or destroyed.

  The fact of a treasury surplus, the amount of which is variously
  stated, has directed public attention to a consideration of the
  methods by which the national income may best be reduced to the level
  of a wise and necessary expenditure. This condition has been seized
  upon by those who are hostile to protective customs duties as an
  advantageous base of attack upon our tariff laws. They have magnified
  and nursed the surplus, which they affect to deprecate, seemingly
  for the purpose of exaggerating the evil, in order to reconcile the
  people to the extreme remedy they propose. A proper reduction of the
  revenues does not necessitate, and should not suggest, the abandonment
  or impairment of the protective system. The methods suggested by
  our convention will not need to be exhausted in order to effect the
  necessary reduction. We are not likely to be called upon, I think, to
  make a present choice between the surrender of the protective system
  and the entire repeal of the internal taxes. Such a contingency,
  in view of the present relation of expenditures to revenues, is
  remote. The inspection and regulation of the manufacture and sale of
  oleomargarine is important, and the revenue derived from it is not so
  great that the repeal of the law need enter into any plan of revenue
  reduction. The surplus now in the treasury should be used in the
  purchase of bonds. The law authorizes this use of it, and if it is not
  needed for current or deficiency appropriations, the people, and not
  the banks in which it has been deposited, should have the advantage
  of its use by stopping interest upon the public debt. At least those
  who needlessly hoard it should not be allowed to use the fear of a
  monetary stringency, thus produced, to coerce public sentiment upon
  other questions.

  Closely connected with the subject of the tariff is that of the
  importation of foreign laborers under contracts of service to be
  performed here. The law now in force prohibiting such contracts
  received my cordial support in the Senate, and such amendments as may
  be found necessary effectively to deliver our working men and women
  from this most inequitable form of competition will have my sincere
  advocacy. Legislation prohibiting the importation of laborers under
  contract to serve here will, however, afford very inadequate relief to
  our working people if the system of protective duties is broken down.
  If the products of American shops must compete in the American market,
  without favoring duties, with the products of cheap foreign labor
  the effect will be different, if at all, only in degree, whether the
  cheap laborer is across the street or over the sea. Such competition
  will soon reduce wages here to the level of those abroad, and when
  that condition is reached we will not need any laws forbidding the
  importation of laborers under contract--they will have no inducement
  to come, and the employer no inducement to send for them.

  In the earlier years of our history public agencies to promote
  immigration were common. The pioneer wanted a neighbor with more
  friendly instincts than the Indian. Labor was scarce and fully
  employed. But the day of the immigration bureau has gone by. While
  our doors will continue open to proper immigration, we do not need to
  issue special invitations to the inhabitants of other countries to
  come to our shores or to share our citizenship. Indeed, the necessity
  of some inspection and limitation is obvious. We should resolutely
  refuse to permit foreign governments to send their paupers and
  criminals to our ports. We are also clearly under a duty to defend our
  civilization by excluding alien races whose ultimate assimilation
  with our people is neither possible nor desirable. The family has been
  the nucleus of our best immigration, and the home the most potent
  assimilating force in our civilization.

  The objections to Chinese immigration are distinctive and
  conclusive, and are now so generally accepted as such that the
  question has passed entirely beyond the stage of argument. The laws
  relating to this subject would, if I should be charged with their
  enforcement, be faithfully executed. Such amendments or further
  legislation as may be necessary and proper to prevent evasions of
  the laws and to stop further Chinese immigration would also meet my
  approval. The expression of the convention upon this subject is in
  entire harmony with my views.

  Our civil compact is a government by majorities, and the law loses
  its sanction and the magistrate our respect when this compact is
  broken. The evil results of election frauds do not expend themselves
  upon the voters who are robbed of their rightful influence in
  public affairs. The individual or community or party that practises
  or connives at election frauds has suffered irreparable injury,
  and will sooner or later realize that to exchange the American
  system of majority rule for minority control is not only unlawful
  and unpatriotic, but very unsafe for those who promote it. The
  disfranchisement of a single legal elector by fraud or intimidation is
  a crime too grave to be regarded lightly. The right of every qualified
  elector to cast one free ballot and to have it honestly counted must
  not be questioned. Every constitutional power should be used to make
  this right secure and to punish frauds upon the ballot.

  Our colored people do not ask special legislation in their
  interest, but only to be made secure in the common rights of American
  citizenship. They will, however, naturally mistrust the sincerity
  of those party leaders who appeal to their race for support only in
  those localities where the suffrage is free and election results
  doubtful, and compass their disfranchisement where their votes would
  be controlling and their choice cannot be coerced.

  The Nation, not less than the States, is dependent for prosperity
  and security upon the intelligence and morality of the people. This
  common interest very early suggested national aid in the establishment
  and endowment of schools and colleges in the new States. There is,
  I believe, a present exigency that calls for still more liberal and
  direct appropriations in aid of common-school education in the States.

  The territorial form of government is a temporary expedient, not
  a permanent civil condition. It is adapted to the exigency that
  suggested it, but becomes inadequate, and even oppressive, when
  applied to fixed and populous communities. Several Territories are
  well able to bear the burdens and discharge the duties of free
  commonwealths in the American Union. To exclude them is to deny the
  just rights of their people, and may well excite their indignant
  protest. No question of the political preference of the people of a
  Territory should close against them the hospitable door which has
  opened to two-thirds of the existing States. But admissions should be
  resolutely refused to any Territory a majority of whose people cherish
  institutions that are repugnant to our civilization or inconsistent
  with a republican form of government.

  The declaration of the convention against "all combinations of
  capital, organized in trusts or otherwise, to control arbitrarily the
  condition of trade among our citizens," is in harmony with the views
  entertained and publicly expressed by me long before the assembling
  of the convention. Ordinarily, capital shares the losses of idleness
  with labor; but under the operation of the trust, in some of its
  forms, the wageworker alone suffers loss, while idle capital receives
  its dividends from a trust fund. Producers who refuse to join the
  combination are destroyed, and competition as an element of prices is
  eliminated. It cannot be doubted that the legislative authority should
  and will find a method of dealing fairly and effectively with those
  and other abuses connected with this subject.

  It can hardly be necessary for me to say that I am heartily in
  sympathy with the declaration of the convention upon the subject of
  pensions to our soldiers and sailors. What they gave and what they
  suffered I had some opportunity to observe, and, in a small measure,
  to experience. They gave ungrudgingly; it was not a trade, but an
  offering. The measure was heaped up, running over. What they achieved
  only a distant generation can adequately tell. Without attempting to
  discuss particular propositions, I may add that measures in behalf of
  the surviving veterans of the war and of the families of their dead
  comrades should be conceived and executed in a spirit of justice and
  of the most grateful liberality, and that, in the competition for
  civil appointments, honorable military service should have appropriate
  recognition.

  The law regulating appointments to the classified civil service
  received my support in the Senate in the belief that it opened the way
  to a much-needed reform. I still think so, and, therefore, cordially
  approve the clear and forcible expression of the convention upon this
  subject. The law should have the aid of a friendly interpretation
  and be faithfully and vigorously enforced. All appointments under it
  should be absolutely free from partisan considerations and influence.
  Some extensions of the classified list are practicable and desirable,
  and further legislation extending the reform to other branches of
  the service to which it is applicable would receive my approval. In
  appointment to every grade and department, fitness, and not party
  service, should be the essential and discriminating test, and fidelity
  and efficiency the only sure tenure of office. Only the interests of
  the public service should suggest removals from office. I know the
  practical difficulties attending the attempt to apply the spirit of
  the civil service rules to all appointments and removals. It will,
  however, be my sincere purpose, if elected, to advance the reform.

  I notice with pleasure that the convention did not omit to express
  its solicitude for the promotion of virtue and temperance among our
  people. The Republican party has always been friendly to everything
  that tended to make the home life of our people free, pure, and
  prosperous, and will in the future be true to its history in this
  respect.

  Our relations with foreign powers should be characterized by
  friendliness and respect. The right of our people and of our ships
  to hospitable treatment should be insisted upon with dignity and
  firmness. Our Nation is too great, both in material strength
  and in moral power, to indulge in bluster or to be suspected of
  timorousness. Vacillation and inconsistency are as incompatible
  with successful diplomacy as they are with the national dignity. We
  should especially cultivate and extend our diplomatic and commercial
  relations with the Central and South American States. Our fisheries
  should be fostered and protected. The hardships and risks that are
  the necessary incidents of the business should not be increased by an
  inhospitable exclusion from the near-lying ports. The resources of a
  firm, dignified, and consistent diplomacy are undoubtedly equal to the
  prompt and peaceful solution of the difficulties that now exist. Our
  neighbors will surely not expect in our ports a commercial hospitality
  they deny to us in theirs.

  I cannot extend this letter by a special reference to other subjects
  upon which the convention gave an expression.

  In respect to them, as well as to those I have noticed, I am
  in entire agreement with the declarations of the convention. The
  resolutions relating to the coinage, to the rebuilding of the navy,
  to coast defences, and to public lands, express conclusions to all of
  which I gave my support in the Senate.

  Inviting a calm and thoughtful consideration of these public
  questions, we submit them to the people. Their intelligent patriotism
  and the good Providence that made and has kept us a Nation will lead
  them to wise and safe conclusions.

          Very respectfully, your obedient servant,
                                            BENJAMIN HARRISON.




CLAYTON, IND., SEPTEMBER 13.

_Reunion of the Seventieth Indiana Regiment._


General Harrison, accompanied by Mrs. Harrison and Mrs. McKee, on
September 13 attended the fourteenth reunion of the Seventieth Indiana
Regimental Association at Clayton village, Hendricks County.

The Seventieth Regiment was recruited from the counties of Hendricks,
Johnson and Marion. Of the one hundred and fifty-nine regiments sent to
the front by Indiana, but few, if any, achieved a more honorable and
distinguished record. It was the first regiment to report for duty under
President Lincoln's call of July, '62, and was recruited in less than a
month by Second Lieutenant Benjamin Harrison.

After the regiment had been recruited Lieutenant Harrison was elected
Captain of Company A, and when the regiment was organized, August
7, 1862, Captain Harrison was commissioned its colonel. It left
Indianapolis for the front August 13, 1862, and returned thirty-four
months later, with a loss of 189 men. It participated in eleven
engagements, including Resaca, Kenesaw, Marietta, Peach Tree Creek,
Atlanta, Savannah and Bentonville. The regiment was a part of Sherman's
army, and was attached to the First Brigade, Third Division, Twentieth
Corps. For several years past General Harrison has been successively
chosen President of the Regimental Association.

Several hundred veterans, with their families, accompanied the General
from Indianapolis, and were greeted at Clayton by five thousand people.
Three hundred veterans of the Seventieth saluted their Colonel as
he walked to the front and, assuming command, led the column to a
neighboring grove, where the exercises of the day were held. It was the
largest reunion in the history of the Association. Among the prominent
non-resident members in attendance were Lieutenant-Colonel James Burghs,
of Topeka; Capt. Wm. M. Meredith, Chicago (he was captain of Company
E, the color company of the regiment); Captain Tansey, now Judge,
of Winfield, Kansas; Captain Willis Record, of Nebraska; Lieutenant
Hardenbrook and Private Snow, of Kansas, and Cyrus Butterfield, of
Minneapolis. The orator of the day was Comrade J. M. Brown.

General Harrison, as President of the Association, presided. The
proceedings were opened with prayer by Comrade J. H. Meteer, followed by
an address of welcome by Miss Mary L. Mitchell, daughter of Captain W.
C. Mitchell, who directed her closing remarks to General Harrison.

With great earnestness the General replied as follows:

  _Miss Mitchell_--I feel quite incompetent to discharge the duty
  that now devolves upon me--that of making suitable response to the
  touching, cordial and sympathetic words which you have addressed to
  us. We thank you and the good citizens of Clayton, for whom you have
  spoken, that you have opened your hearts so fully to us to-day. I am
  sure we have never assembled under circumstances more attractive than
  those that now surround us. The mellow sunshine of this autumn-time
  that falls upon us, the balmy air which moves the leaves of those
  shadowing trees, the sweet calm and spell of nature that is over
  everything, makes the day one of those that may be described in the
  language of the old poet as

             "A bridal of the earth and sky."

  Your hospitable welcome makes us feel at home, and in behalf of this
  large representation of our regiment, possibly the largest that has
  assembled since the close of the war, gathered not only from these
  adjacent counties, but from distant homes beyond the Mississippi and
  the Missouri, I give you to-day in return our most hearty thanks for
  your great kindness.

  The autumn-time is a fit time for our gathering, for our spring-time
  is gone. It was in the spring-time of our lives that we heard our
  country's call. Full of vigor and youth and patriotism, we responded
  to it. The exhaustion of march and camp and battle, and the civil
  strife of the years that have passed since the close of the war,
  have left their marks upon us, and, as we gather from year to year,
  we notice the signs of advancing age, and the roster of our dead is
  lengthened. We are reminded by the minutes of our last meeting, that
  have been read, of the presence at our last reunion of that faithful
  and beloved officer who went out from this county, Major Reagan.
  With a prophetic instinct of what was before him, he told us then
  that it was probably the last time that he should gather with us.
  God has verified the thought that was in his mind, and that simple,
  true-hearted, brave comrade has been enrolled with the larger company.
  We are glad to-day to be together, yet our gladness is sobered. As I
  look into those familiar faces I notice a deep sense of satisfaction,
  but I have not failed to observe that there are tears in many eyes.
  We are not moved to tears by any sense of regret that we gave some
  service to our country and to its flag, but only by the sense that we
  are not all here to-day, and that all who are here will never gather
  again in a meeting like this. We rejoice that we were permitted to
  make some contribution to the glory and credit and perpetuity of the
  Nation we love. [Applause.]

  Comrades who served under other regimental flags and who have
  gathered here with us to-day, we do not boast of higher motives or
  greater service than yours. We welcome you to a participation in
  our reunion. We fully acknowledge that you had a full--possibly a
  fuller--share than we in the great achievements of the war. We claim
  only this for the Seventieth Indiana--that we went into the service
  with the full purpose to respond to every order [cries of "That's
  so!"], and that we never evaded a fight or turned our backs to the
  enemy. [Applause.] We are not here to exalt ourselves, but I cannot
  omit to say that a purer, truer self-consecration to the flag and
  country was never offered than by you and your dead comrades who, in
  1862, mustered for the defence of the Union. [Applause.]

  It was not in the heyday of success, it was not under the impression
  that sixty days would end the war, that you were mustered. It was when
  the clouds hung low and disasters were thick. Buell was returning
  from the Tennessee, Kirby Smith coming through Cumberland Gap, and
  McClellan had been defeated on the Peninsula. It seemed as if the
  frown of God was on our cause. It was then, in that hour of stress,
  that you pledged your hearts and lives to the country [applause], in
  the sober realization that the war was a desperate one, in which
  thousands were to die. We are glad that God has spared us to see the
  magnificent development and increase in strength and honor which has
  come to us as a Nation, and in the glory that has been woven into the
  flag we love. [Great applause.] We are glad that with most of us the
  struggle in life has not left us defeat, if it has not crowned us with
  the highest successes. We are veterans and yet citizens, pledged, each
  according to his own conscience and thought, to do that which will
  best promote the glory of our country and best conserve and set in
  our public measures those patriotic thoughts and purposes that took
  us into the war. [Applause.] It is my wish to-day that every relation
  I occupy to the public or to a political party might be absolutely
  forgotten [cries of "Good! good!"], and that I might for this day,
  among these comrades, be thought of only as a comrade--your old
  Colonel. [Great applause.]

  Nothing has given me more pleasure on this occasion than to notice,
  as I passed through your streets, so beautifully and so tastefully
  decorated, that the poles that have been reared by the great parties
  were intertwined [applause]--and now I remind myself that I am not
  the orator of this occasion [cries of "Go on!"], but its presiding
  officer. The right discharge of that duty forbids much talking.

  Comrades of the Seventieth Indiana, comrades of all these associated
  regiments, I am glad to meet you. Nothing shall sever that bond, I
  hope. Nothing that I shall ever say, nothing that I shall ever do,
  will weaken it. And now, if you will permit me again to acknowledge
  the generous hospitality of this community, and in your behalf to
  return them our most sincere thanks, I will close these remarks and
  proceed with the programme which has been provided.

General Harrison was unanimously re-elected President of the
Association, Colonel Samuel Merrill Vice-President, M. G. McLean
Secretary, Major James L. Mitchell Treasurer.

When the motion was put by one of the veterans on the adoption of
the report re-electing General Harrison to the presidency of the
Association, the veterans answered with a "Yea" that brought cheer upon
cheer from the crowd.

General Harrison, visibly affected, simply said: "I feel myself crowned
again to-day by this evidence of comradeship of the old soldiers of the
Seventieth Indiana." [Cheers.]

On his return from Clayton, General Harrison was visited at his
residence by fifty veterans of Potter Post, G. A. R., Sycamore, Ill.,
_en route_ home from the Columbus encampment. They were introduced by
General E. F. Dutton, colonel of the One Hundred and Fifth Illinois
Infantry, and commander of the Second Brigade, Third Division of the
Twentieth Army Corps.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 14.


All trains arriving from the East this day brought large delegations of
homeward-bound veterans from the Columbus, Ohio, encampment. The first
to arrive was one hundred veterans of Ransom Post, St. Louis--General
Sherman's Post--who were introduced by Col. Murphy. General Harrison,
responding to their greeting, said:

  _Comrades_--I esteem it a pleasure to be able to associate with you
  by the use of that form of address. I know of no human organization
  that can give a better reason for its existence than the Grand Army of
  the Republic. [Cries of "Good!"] It needs no argument to justify it;
  it stands unassailable, and admits of no criticism from any quarter.
  Its members have rendered that service to their country in war, and
  they maintain now, in peace, that honorable, courageous citizenship
  that entitles them to every patriot's respect. I thank you for this
  visit, and will be glad if you will now allow me to welcome you to my
  home.

In the afternoon the streets of Indianapolis were overflowing with
marching veterans from Illinois, Minnesota, Missouri, Wisconsin, and
Kansas, headed by the National Drum Corps of Minneapolis, and commanded
by Department Commander Col. James A. Sexton, of Chicago, and a
brilliant staff. The great column passed through the city out to the
Harrison residence. Conspicuous at the head of the line marched the
distinguished Governor of Wisconsin, General Jere M. Rusk, surrounded
by his staff of seventeen crippled veterans, among whom were Capt. E.
G. Fimme, Secretary of State of Wisconsin; Col. H. B. Harshaw, State
Treasurer; C. E. Estabrook, Attorney-General; Philip Cheek, Insurance
Commissioner; Col. H. P. Fischer, Maj. J. R. Curran, Maj. F. L.
Phillips, Maj. F. H. Conse; Captains W. W. Jones, H. W. Lovejoy, and W.
H. McFarland. Eighty members of the Woman's Relief Corps accompanied
the veterans, and were given positions of honor at the reception.
When General Harrison appeared he was tendered an ovation. Governor
Rusk said: "Comrades--I consider it both an honor and a pleasure in
introducing to you the President of the United States for the next eight
years--General Benjamin Harrison." [Cheers.]

General Harrison responded as follows:

  _Governor Rusk, Comrades of the Grand Army, and Ladies_--I did not
  suppose that the Constitution of our country would be subjected to
  so serious a fracture by the executive of one of our great States.
  [Laughter.] Four years is the constitutional term of the President.
  [Laughter.] I am glad to see you; I return your friendly greetings
  most heartily. Your association is a most worthy one. As I said to
  some comrades who visited me this morning, it has the best reason for
  its existence of any human organization that I know of. [Applause.] I
  am glad to know that your recent encampment at Columbus was so largely
  attended, and was in all its circumstances so magnificent a success.
  The National Encampment of the G. A. R. is an honor to any city. The
  proudest may well array itself in its best attire to welcome the
  Union veterans of the late war. In these magnificent gatherings, so
  impressive in numbers and so much more impressive in the associations
  they revive, there is a great teaching force. If it is worth while
  to build monuments to heroism and patriotic sacrifice that may stand
  as dumb yet eloquent instructors of the generation that is to come,
  so it is worth while that these survivors of the war assemble in
  their national encampments and march once more, unarmed, through the
  streets of our cities, whose peace and prosperity they have secured.
  [Applause.]

  Every man and every woman should do them honor. We have a body of
  citizen soldiers instructed in tactics and strategy and accustomed to
  the points of war that make this Nation very strong and formidable.
  I well remember that even in the second year of the war instructors
  in tactics were rare in our own camps. They are very numerous now.
  [Laughter.] Yet, while this Nation was never so strong in a great
  instructed, trained body of veteran soldiers, I think it was never
  more strongly smitten with the love of peace. The man that would
  rather fight than eat has not survived the last war. [Laughter.] He
  was laid away in an early grave or enrolled on the list of deserters.
  But he would be mistaken who supposes that all the hardships of the
  war--its cruel, hard memories--would begin to frighten those veterans
  from the front if the flag was again assailed or the national security
  or dignity imperilled. [Applause and cries of "You are right!"] The
  war was also an educator in political economy.

  These veterans, who saw how the poverty of the South in the
  development of her manufacturing interests paralyzed the skill of
  her soldiers and the generalship of her captains, have learned to
  esteem and value our diversified manufacturing interests. [Applause.]
  You know that woollen mills and flocks would have been more valuable
  to the Confederacy than battalions; that foundries and arsenals and
  skilled mechanical labor was the great lack of the Confederacy. You
  have learned that lesson so well that you will not wish our rescued
  country, by any fatal free-trade policy, to be brought to a like
  condition. [Applause and cries of "Good! good!"] And now, gentlemen, I
  had a stipulation that I was not to speak at all. [Laughter.] You will
  surely allow me now to stop this formal address, and to welcome my
  comrades to our home. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 15.


General Harrison held three receptions this date. The first was tendered
the Scott Rifles of Kansas City, all members of the G. A. R., _en route_
home from the Columbus encampment. They wore the regulation blue uniform
and carried muskets. Captain Brant introduced his company, stating that
in bringing their arms with them "they did not intend to do General
Harrison any violence." The General responded:

  _Captain and Comrades_--I did not need to be assured that comrades
  of the Grand Army, whether bearing arms or not, brought me no peril.
  No loyal and orderly citizen will mistrust their friendliness. The
  people of Indiana will not ask that you procure any permit or give
  bond to keep the peace before passing through this loyal State with
  arms in your hands.

  I am especially complimented by the visit of this organized company
  of the Missouri militia, composed wholly of Union veterans. It gives
  evidence that those who served in the Civil War are still watchful of
  the honor and safety of our country and its flag; that our Government
  may rest with security upon the defence which our citizen-soldiers
  offer.

  And now, without alluding at all to any topic of partisan interest,
  I bid you welcome, and will be pleased to have a personal introduction
  to each of you, if that is your pleasure.

The second reception was extended to a delegation of twelve hundred
workingmen from New Albany, Floyd County, organized into political
clubs, among whose leaders were Walter B. Godfrey, M. Y. Mallory,
Geo. B. Cardwell, M. M. Hurley, W. A. Maynor, Andrew Fite, Chas. R.
Clarke, J. W. Edmonson, L. L. Pierce, Horace Brown, N. D. Morris, T. W.
Armstrong, D. C. Anthony, John Hahn, R. E. Burke, Albert Hopkins, F.
D. Connor, Frank Norton, M. McDonald, M. H. Sparks, W. H. Russell, J.
N. Peyton, Daniel Prosser, Geo. Roberts, and G. H. Pennington. A band
of G. A. R. veterans from far-off Texas happened to be present at the
reception, among them Col. J. C. De Gress, Wm. Long, John Herman, S. C.
Slade, W. H. Nye, W. H. Tuttle, Geo. A. Knight, and Dr. S. McKay. James
A. Atkinson, a glassblower of the De Pauw works at New Albany, delivered
an able address on behalf of the visitors. General Harrison responded as
follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--There is something very distinctive, very
  interesting, and very instructive in this large delegation of
  workingmen from the city of New Albany. Your fellow-workman and
  spokesman has so eloquently presented that particular issue upon which
  you have the greatest interest that I can add nothing to the force
  or conclusiveness of his argument. He has said that the interests
  of the workingmen were especially involved in the pending political
  contest. I think that is conceded even by our political opponents.
  I do not think there is a man so dull or so unfair as to deny that
  the reduction of our tariff rates so as to destroy the principle of
  protection now embodied in our laws will have an influence on your
  wages and on the production of your mills and factories. If this be
  true, then your interest in the question is apparent. You will want to
  know whether the influence of the proposed reduction of rates is to
  be beneficial or hurtful; whether the effect will be to stimulate or
  diminish production; whether it will be to maintain or increase the
  rate of wages you are now receiving, or to reduce them. As you shall
  settle these questions, so will you vote in November. [Applause.]

  No man can doubt that a reduction of duties will stimulate the
  importation of foreign merchandise. None of these plate-glass workers
  can doubt that a reduction of the duty upon plate-glass will increase
  the importation of French plate-glass.

  None of these workers in your woollen mills can doubt that the
  reduction of the duty upon the product of their mills will increase
  the importation of foreign woollen goods.

  And, if that is true, is it not also clear that this increased
  importation of foreign-made goods means some idle workingmen in your
  mills? The party that favors such discriminating duties as will
  develop American production and secure the largest amount of work
  for our American shops is the party whose policy will promote your
  interests. [Applause and cries of "Hit him again!"] I have heard it
  said by some leaders of Democratic thought that the reduction proposed
  by the Mills bill, and the further reduction which some of them are
  candid enough to admit they contemplate, will stimulate American
  production by opening foreign markets and that the interests of our
  Indiana manufacturing establishments would thus be promoted. But those
  who advance this argument also say that it will not do to progress
  too rapidly in the direction of free trade--that we must go slowly,
  because our protected industries cannot stand too rapid an advance;
  it would not be safe. [Laughter.] Now, my countrymen, if this plan of
  revenue reform is to be promotive of our manufacturing interests, why
  go slowly? Why not open the gates wide and let us have the promised
  good all at once? [Laughter and applause.]

  Is it that these philosophers think the cup of prosperity will
  be so sweet and full that our laboring people cannot be allowed to
  drink it at one draught? [Applause and cries of "Good! good!"] No,
  my countrymen, this statement implies what these gentlemen know to
  be true--that the effect of the proposed legislation is diminished
  production and diminished wages, and they desire that you shall have
  an opportunity to get used to it. [Applause.] But I cannot press
  this discussion further. I want to thank you for the cordial things
  you have said to me by him who has spoken for you. I trust, and have
  always trusted, the intelligence and conscience of our working people.
  [Applause.]

  They will inevitably find out the truth, and when they find it they
  will justify it. Therefore, there are many things that have been said
  to which I have not and shall not allude while this contest is on.
  They are with you: the truth is accessible to you, and you will find
  it. Now, thanking you most heartily for the personal respect you have
  evidenced, and congratulating you upon your intelligent devotion to
  that great American system which has spread a sky of hope above you
  and your children, I bid you good-by. [Cheers.]

The crowning event of the day was the reception of several hundred
members of the Irish-American Republican Club of Cook County and
Chicago. The visitors were met by the Home Irish-American Protection
Club, Patrick A. Ward, President, assisted by the Columbia Club and
several thousand citizens. Their demonstration was one of the most
notable of the campaign. This club was the first political organization
in the country to congratulate General Harrison on his nomination. The
evening of June 25 the club met and adopted the following, which was
telegraphed the General:

  The Irish-American Republican Club of Cook County, Illinois,
  congratulate you and the country upon your nomination. We greet
  the gallant soldier and true American, and rejoice with our
  fellow-citizens of every nationality in the glad assurance your
  nomination gives that the industries of our country will be protected
  and the honor of the Nation maintained with the same courage and
  devotion that distinguished you on the bloody field of Resaca. We
  salute the next President of the Republic.

                                       NATHAN P. BRADY, _President_.

Leaders of the delegation were Hon. John F. Finerty, F. J. Gleason,
Dennis Ward, Richard Powers, and Messrs. Russell and O'Morey. Thomas
F. Byron, of Lowell, Mass., founder of the Land League in America,
accompanied the club. In the absence of President Brady their spokesman
was Mr. John F. Beggs. General Harrison delivered one of his happiest
responses. He said:

  _Mr. Beggs and my Friends of the Irish-American Republican
  Club of Cook County, Ill._--You were Irishmen, you are Americans
  [cheers]--Irish-Americans [continued cheering], and though you have
  given the consecrated loyalty of your honest hearts to the starry flag
  and your adopted country, you have not and you ought not to forget
  to love and venerate the land of your nativity. [Great applause.] If
  you could forget Ireland, if you could be unmoved by her minstrelsy,
  untouched by the appeals of her splendid oratory, unsympathetic with
  her heroes and martyrs, I should fear that the bonds of your new
  citizenship would have no power over hearts so cold and consciences so
  dead. [Cheers.]

  What if a sprig of green were found upon the bloody jacket of a
  Union soldier who lay dead on Missionary Ridge? The flag he died for
  was his flag and the green was only a memory and an inspiration.

  We, native or Irish born, join with the Republican convention in
  the hope that the cause of Irish home rule, progressing under the
  leadership of Gladstone and Parnell [cheers] upon peaceful and lawful
  lines, may yet secure for Ireland that which as Americans we so much
  value--local home rule. [Cheering.] I am sure that you who have,
  in your own persons or in your worthy representatives, given such
  convincing evidence of your devotion to the American Constitution
  and flag and to American institutions will not falter in this great
  civil contest which your spokesman has so fittingly described. Who,
  if not Irish-Americans versed in the sad story of the commercial
  ruin of the island they love, should be instructed in the beneficent
  influence of a protective tariff? [Continuous cheering.] Who, if not
  Irish-Americans should be able to appreciate the friendly influences
  of the protective system upon their individual and upon their home
  life? Which of you has not realized that not the lot of man only, but
  the lot of woman, has been made softer and easier under its influence?
  [Applause and "Hear! hear!"] Contrast the American mother and wife,
  burdened only with the cares of motherhood and of the household, with
  the condition of women in many of the countries of the Old World,
  where she is loaded also with the drudgery of toil in the field.
  [Applause.]

  I know that none more than Irishmen, who are so characterized by
  their deference for women, and whose women have so fitly illustrated
  that which is pure in female character, will value this illustration
  of the good effects of our American system upon the home life.
  [Continued applause.]

  There are nations across the sea who are hungry for the American
  market. They are waiting with eager expectation for the adoption of
  a free-trade policy by the United States. [Cries of "That will never
  happen!"] The English manufacturer is persuaded that an increased
  market for English goods in America is good for him, but I think it
  will be impossible to persuade the American producer and the American
  workman that it is good for them. [Applause and cries of "That's
  right!"] I believe that social order, that national prosperity, are
  bound up in the preservation of our existing policy. [Loud cheering
  and cries of "You are right!"] I do not believe that a republic can
  live and prosper whose wage-earners do not receive enough to make life
  comfortable, who do not have some upward avenues of hope open before
  them. When the wage-earners of the land lose hope, when the star goes
  out, social order is impossible, and after that anarchy or the Czar.
  [Cheering.]

  I gratefully acknowledge the compliment of your call, and
  exceedingly regret that the storm without made it impossible for me
  to receive you at my house. [Applause and cries of "Thanks! thanks!"]
  I will now be glad to take each member of your club by the hand.
  [Continued cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 18.


General Harrison's callers to-day numbered about five thousand, over
half of whom came from Vermilion County, Illinois, led by a company of
young ladies, in uniform, from the town of Sidell. Hon. Samuel Stansbury
of Danville was Marshal of the delegation, aided by E. C. Boudinot, D.
G. Moore, Chas. A. Allen, J. G. Thompson, and W. C. Cowan. Col. W. R.
Jewell, editor Danville _Daily News_, was spokesman. General Harrison,
in response, said:

  _My Illinois Friends_--The people of your State were very early
  in giving evidence to our people and to me that they are deeply and
  generally interested in this campaign. I welcome you and accept
  your coming as evidence that the early interest you manifested has
  suffered no abatement. It was not an impulse that stirred you, but
  a deep conviction that matters of great and lasting consequence to
  your country are involved in this campaign. Your representative in
  Congress, Hon. Joseph Cannon, is well known in Indiana. [Applause.]
  I have known him for many years; have observed his conduct in the
  National Congress, and always with admiration. He is a fearless,
  aggressive, honest Republican leader. [Applause and cries of "Good!
  good!"] He is worthy of the favor and confidence you have shown him.

  If some one were to ask to-day, "What is the matter with the United
  States?" [laughter and cries of "She's all right!"] I am sure we would
  hear some Democratic friend respond, "Its people are oppressed and
  impoverished by tariff taxation." [Laughter.] Ordinarily our people
  can be trusted to know when they are taxed; but this Democratic friend
  will tell us that the tariff tax is so insidious that our people pay
  it without knowing it. That is a very unhappy condition, indeed. But
  his difficulties are not all surmounted when he has convinced his
  hearers that a customs duty is a tax, for history does not run well
  with his statement that our people have been impoverished by our
  tariff system. Another answer to your question will be perhaps that
  there is now a great surplus in the Treasury--he will probably not
  state the figures, for there seems to be a painful uncertainty about
  that. I have sometimes thought that this surplus was held chiefly to
  be talked about. The laws provide a use for it that would speedily
  place it in circulation. If a business man finds an accumulated
  surplus that he does not need in his business, that stands as a bank
  balance and draws no interest, and if he has notes outside to mature
  in the future he will make a ready choice between leaving his balance
  in the bank and using it to take up his obligations. [Applause.]
  But in our national finances the other choice has been made, and
  this surplus remains in the national bank without interest, while
  our bonds, which, under the law, might be retired by the use of it,
  continue to draw interest.

  You have a great agricultural State. Its prairies offer the most
  tempting invitation to the settler. I have heard it suggested that one
  reason why you have outstripped Indiana in population was because the
  men who were afraid of the "deadening" passed over us to seek your
  treeless plains. [Applause.] But you have not been contented to be
  only an agricultural community. You have developed your manufactures
  and mechanical industries until now, if my recollection is not at
  fault, for every two persons engaged in agricultural labor you have
  one engaged in manufacturing, in the mechanical arts and mining. It is
  this subdivision of labor, these diversified industries, that make
  Illinois take rank so near the head among the States. By this home
  interchange of the products of the farm and shop, made possible by our
  protective system, Illinois has been able to attain her proud position
  in the union of the States. Shall we continue a policy that has
  wrought so marvellously since the war in the development of all those
  States that have given hospitable access to manufacturing capital and
  to the brawn and skill of the workingman? [Cries of "Good! good!" and
  cheers.]

From Louisville, Ky., came 1,000 enthusiastic visitors, led by the Hon.
Wm. E. Riley, Hon. R. R. Glover, Hon. Albert Scott, W. W. Huffman, W. M.
Collins, M. E. Malone, and J. J. Jonson. A. E. Willson, of Louisville,
delivered a stirring address on behalf of the Republicans of Kentucky,
to which General Harrison responded as follows:

  _My Kentucky Friends_--There have been larger delegations assembled
  about this platform, but there has been none that has in a higher
  degree attracted my interest or touched my heart. [Applause.] It
  has been quite one thing to be a Republican in Illinois and quite
  another to be a Republican in Kentucky. [Applause.] Not the victors
  only in a good fight deserve a crown; those who fight well and are
  beaten and fight again, as you have done, deserve a crown, though
  victory never yet has perched on your banner. [A voice, "It will perch
  there, though, don't you forget it!"] Yes, it will come, for the
  bud of victory is always in the truth. I will not treat you to-day
  to any statistics from the census reports [laughter], nor enter the
  attractive field of the history of your great State. I have believed
  that these visiting delegations were always well advised as to the
  history and statistics of their respective States. [Laughter.] If
  this trust has been misplaced in other cases, certainly Kentuckians
  can be trusted to remember and perhaps to tell all that is noble in
  the thrilling history of their great State. [Great applause.] Your
  history is very full of romantic and thrilling adventure and of
  instances of individual heroism. Your people have always been proud,
  chivalric, and brave. In the late war for the Union, spite of all
  distraction and defection, Kentucky stood by the old flag. [Applause.]
  And now that the war is over and its bitter memory is forgotten,
  there is not one, I hope, in all your borders, who does not bless the
  outcome of that great struggle. [Applause.] Surely there are none in
  Kentucky who do not rejoice that the beautiful river is not a river
  of division. [Great applause.] And now what hinders that Kentucky
  shall step forward in the great industrial rivalry between the
  States? Is there not, as your spokesman has suggested, in the early
  and thorough instruction which the people of Kentucky received from
  the mouth of your matchless orator, Henry Clay [applause], a power
  that shall yet and speedily bring back Kentucky to the support of our
  protective system? [Applause.] Can the old Whigs, who so reverently
  received from the lips of Clay the gospel of protection, much longer
  support a revenue policy that they know to be inimical to our national
  interests? If when Kentucky was a slave State she found a protective
  tariff promoted the prosperity of her people, what greater things will
  the same policy not do for her as a free State? She has now opened
  her hospitable doors to skilled labor; her coal and metals and hemp
  invite its transforming touch. Why should she not speedily find great
  manufacturing cities spring up in her beautiful valleys? Shall any old
  prejudice spoil this hopeful vision? [Great applause.] I remember that
  Kentucky agitated for seven years and held nine conventions before
  she secured a separate statehood. May I not appeal to the children of
  those brave settlers who, when but few in number, composed of distant
  and feeble settlements, were received into the Union of States, to
  show their chivalry and love of justice by uniting with us in the
  demand that Dakota and Washington shall be admitted? [Applause.] Does
  not your own story shame those who represent you in the halls of
  Congress and who bar the door against communities whose numbers and
  resources so vastly outreach what you possessed when you were admitted
  to statehood? We look hopefully to Kentucky. The State of Henry Clay
  and Abraham Lincoln [enthusiastic cheering] cannot be much longer
  forgetful [cries of "No! no!"] of the teachings of those great leaders
  of thought.

  I believe that Kentucky will place herself soon upon the side of the
  truth upon these great questions. [A voice, "We believe it!" Another
  voice, "We will keep them out of Indiana, anyhow!" Great cheering.]
  Thank you. There is no better way that I know of to keep one
  detachment of an army from re-enforcing another than by giving that
  detachment all it can do in its own field. [Applause and laughter.]

The last visitors of the day were 200 delegates, in attendance upon
the sessions of the National Association of Union Ex-Prisoners of War.
They were led by Gen. W. H. Powell, of Belleville, Iowa, President of
the Association; E. H. Williams, of Indianapolis, Vice-President;
Chaplain C. C. McCabe, New York City; Historian Frank E. Moran,
Philadelphia; President-elect Thomas H. McKee and Secretary L. P.
Williams, Washington, D. C.; S. N. Long, of New Jersey, and J. W. Green,
of Ohio. Every one of the visiting veterans had undergone imprisonment
at Andersonville, Libby, or some less noted Southern prison. Conspicuous
among them was Gen. B. F. Kelly, of Virginia, the first Union officer
wounded in the rebellion, and J. A. January, of Illinois, who amputated
both his own feet while in Libby Prison, to prevent gangrene spreading.
General Powell, in a brief address, touchingly referred to the perils
and hardships they had survived. General Harrison was greatly affected
by the scene--the veterans grouped closely about him in his own house.
He paused a moment in silence, then in a low, sympathetic voice, said:

  _General Powell and Comrades_--I am always touched when I meet
  either with those who stood near about me in the service, or those who
  shared the general comradeship of the war. It seems to me that the
  wild exhilaration which in the earlier reunions we often saw is very
  much sobered as we come together now. I have realized in meeting with
  my own regiment this fall that it was a time when one felt the touches
  of the pathetic. And yet there was a glow of satisfaction in being
  together again and in thinking of what was and what is. The annals of
  the war fail to furnish a sadder story than that of the host of Union
  veterans who suffered war's greatest hardship--captivity. The story of
  the rebel prison pens was one of grim horror. In the field our armies,
  always brave, were generally always chivalric and humane. But the
  treatment of the captured Union soldiers surpassed in fiendish cruelty
  the best achievements of the savage. It is the black spot without any
  lining of silver or any touch of human nature. But you have cause for
  congratulation that you have been spared to the glory and prosperity
  that your services and sufferings have brought to the Nation. The
  most vivid imagination has drawn no picture of the full meaning to
  our people and to the world of these simple words--we saved the
  Union, perpetuated free government, and abolished slavery. [Prolonged
  applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 19.


Five delegations paid their respects to the Republican nominee this day.
The first was sixty veterans of the Seventh Indiana Cavalry--General
J. P. Shanks' old regiment. Colonel Lewis Reeves, of Mentone, Ind.,
made the address on behalf of the veterans, to which General Harrison
responded:

  _Comrades_--I recall the services of your gallant regiment.
  I welcome you as men who had as honorable a part in the great
  achievements of the Union army as any in the Civil War. I congratulate
  you that you have been spared to see the fruits of your labors and
  sacrifices. In these meetings the thought of those who did not live to
  see the end of the bloody struggle is always present. Their honor also
  is in our keeping. I am glad to know that at last in our State a shaft
  is being lifted to the honor of the Indiana soldier. It will not only
  keep alive a worthy memory, but it will instil patriotism into our
  children. I thank you for this friendly visit. [Cheers.]

From Illinois came two large delegations--that from Iroquois County
numbering 1,000, commanded by Chief Marshal Slattery, of Onargo. A
Tippecanoe club of veterans headed their column, led by Chairman Owen,
followed by the John A. Logan Club, commanded by Capt. A. L. Whitehall.
Prominent in the delegation were State Senator Secrist, Judge S. G.
Bovie, B. F. Price, J. F. Ireland, A. Powell, James Woodworth, G.
B. Joiner, W. M. Coney, Dr. J. H. Gillam, Dr. Scull, editors E. A.
Nye and M. S. Taliaferro, of Watseka; also W. H. Howe, of Braidwood,
father of the "Drummer Boy of Vicksburg." Robert Meredith, of Onargo,
spoke on behalf of the colored members of the delegation, and Capt.
R. W. Hilscher, of Watseka, for the veterans. La Porte County, Ind.,
was represented by a large delegation, the Michigan City detachment
commanded by Major Biddle, Uriah Culbert, and Major Wood. The Laporte
City clubs were led by Wm. C. Weir, Marshal of the delegation. Other
prominent members were S. M. Closser, W. C. Miller, Frank E. Osborn,
J. N. Whitehead, M. L. Bramhall, Nelson Larzen, Samuel Bagley, Brook
Travis, Wm. Hastings, S. A. Rose, Swan Peterson, and editor Sonneborn.
The presentation address was made by Col. J. W. Crumpacker, of Laporte.

To these several addresses General Harrison responded:

  _My Illinois and my Indiana Friends_--If I needed any stimulus to
  duty, or to have my impression of the dignity and responsibility of
  representative office increased, I should find it in such assemblies
  as these and in the kind and thoughtful words which have been
  addressed to me in your behalf. The American people under our system
  of government have their public interests in their own keeping. All
  laws and proclamations may be revoked or repealed by them. They will
  be called on in November to mark out the revenue policy for our
  Government by choosing public officers pledged to the principles
  which a majority of our people approve. Fortunately you have now an
  issue very clearly drawn and very easy to be understood. In previous
  campaigns we have not quite known where our adversaries stood. Now we
  do know. Our Democratic friends say a protective tariff is robbery.
  You see this written at the head of campaign tracts circulated
  by their committees. You hear it said in the public speeches of
  their leaders. You have not once, I think, in the campaign heard
  any Democratic speaker admit that even a low protective tariff was
  desirable. Those who, like Mr. Randall, have in former campaigns
  been used to allay the apprehension of our working people by talking
  protection have been silenced. On the other hand, the Republican party
  declares by its platform and by its speakers that a protective tariff
  is wise and necessary. There is the issue. Make your own choice. If
  you approve by your votes the doctrine that a protective tariff is
  public robbery, you will expect your representatives to stop this
  public robbery, and if they are faithful they will do it; not seven
  per cent. of it, but all of it. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"]
  So that I beg you all to recollect that you will vote this fall for
  or against the principle of protection. You are invited to a feast of
  cheapness. You are promised foreign-made goods at very low prices,
  and domestic competing goods, if any are made, at the same low rates.
  But do not forget that the spectre of low wages will also attend the
  feast. [Applause and cries of "That's so!"] Inevitably, as certain as
  the night follows the day, the adoption of this policy means lower
  wages. Choose, then, and do not forget that this cheapening process
  may be pushed so far as to involve the cheapening of human life and
  the loss of human happiness. [Applause.]

  And now a word about the surplus in the Treasury. Our Democratic
  friends did not know what else to do with it, and so they have
  deposited it in certain national banks. The Government gets no
  interest upon it, but it is loaned out by the banks to our citizens at
  interest. Our income is more than our current expenses. There is no
  authority for the Secretary of the Treasury to lend the money, and so
  only three methods of dealing with it presented themselves, under the
  law--first, to lock it up in the Treasury vaults; second, to deposit
  it in the banks without interest; or, third, to use it in the purchase
  of bonds not yet due. The objection to the first method was that the
  withdrawal of so large a sum might result in a monetary stringency;
  the second obviated this objection by allowing the banks to put the
  money in circulation; but neither method resulted in any advantage to
  the Government.

  As to it the money was dead; only the banks received interest for
  its use. By the third method the money would be returned to the
  channels of trade and the Government would make the difference between
  the premium paid for the bond and the interest that the bonds would
  draw if left outstanding until they matured. If a Government bond
  at the market premium is a good investment for a capitalist who is
  free to use his money as he pleases, can it be bad finance for the
  Government, having money that it cannot use in any other way, to use
  it in buying up its bonds? [Great applause.] It is not whether we will
  purposely raise money to buy our bonds at a premium--no one would
  advise that--but will we so use a surplus that we have on hand and
  cannot lawfully pay out in any other way? Do our Democratic friends
  propose to give the banks the free use of it until our bonds mature,
  or do they propose to reduce our annual income below our expenditure
  by a revision of the tariff until this surplus is used, and then
  revise the tariff again to restore the equilibriums? [Great applause.]
  I welcome the presence to-day of these ladies of your households. We
  should not forget that we have working-women in America. [Applause and
  cries of "Good! good!"] None more than they are interested in this
  policy of protection which we advocate. If want and hard conditions
  come into the home, the women bear a full share. [Applause.] And now
  I have been tempted to speak more at length than I had intended.
  I thank you for this cordial manifestation of your confidence and
  respect. [Cheers.]

The fourth delegation of the day came from Grundy County, Illinois,
headed by the Logan Club of Morris. An enthusiastic member of this
delegation was the venerable Geo. P. Augustine, of Braceville,
Ill., aged 77, who in the summer of 1840 employed the boy "Jimmie"
Garfield--afterward President of the United States--to ride his horses
on the tow-path of the Ohio canal between Portsmouth and Cleveland.
Hon. P. C. Hayes, of Morris, was spokesman for the delegation. General
Harrison said:

  _General Hayes and my Illinois Friends_--I regret that your arrival
  was postponed so long as to make it impossible for you to meet with
  the other friends from your State who, a little while ago, assembled
  about the platform. I thank you for the kind feelings that prompted
  you to come, and for the generous things General Hayes has said in
  your behalf. There is little that I can say and little that I can
  appropriately do to promote the success of the Republican principles.
  A campaign that enlists the earnest and active co-operation of the
  individual voters will have a safe issue. I am glad to see in your
  presence an evidence that in your locality this individual interest
  is felt. [Applause.] But popular assemblies, public debate, and
  conventions are all an empty mockery unless, when the debate is
  closed, the election is so conducted that every elector shall have
  an equal and full influence in determining the result. That is our
  compact of government. [Cheers.] I thank you again for your great
  kindness, and it will now give me pleasure to accede to the suggestion
  of General Hayes and take each of you by the hand.

The fifth and last delegation of the day reached the Harrison residence
in the evening, and comprised 200 survivors of the Second and Ninth
Indiana Cavalry and the Twenty-sixth Indiana Infantry. Col. John A.
Bridgland, the old commander of the Second Cavalry, spoke on behalf of
the veterans. General Harrison replied:

  _Colonel Bridgland and Comrades_--I am fast losing my faith in men.
  [Laughter.] This morning a representative or two of this regiment
  called upon me and made an arrangement that I should receive you at
  this hour. It was expressly stipulated--though I took no security
  [laughter]--that there should be no speech-making at all. Now I find
  myself formally introduced to you and under the necessity of talking
  to you. [Laughter.] I am under so much stress in this way, from day
  to day, that I am really getting to be a little timid when I see a
  corporal's guard together anywhere, for fear they will want a speech.
  [Laughter.] And even at home, when I sit down at the table with my
  family, I have some apprehensions lest some one may propose a toast
  and insist that I shall respond. [Laughter.]

  I remember that the Second Indiana Cavalry was the first full
  cavalry regiment I ever saw. I saw it marching through Washington
  Street from the windows of my law office; and as I watched the long
  line drawing itself through the street, it seemed to me the call
  for troops might stop; that there were certainly enough men and
  horses there to put down the rebellion. [Laughter.] It is clear I
  did not rightly measure the capacities of a cavalry regiment, or the
  dimensions of the rebellion. [Laughter.] I am glad to see you here
  to-day. You come as soldiers, and I greet you as comrades. I will not
  allude to political topics, on which any of us might differ. [A voice,
  "There ain't any differences!"] Of course, the members of the Ninth
  Cavalry and the Twenty-sixth Infantry must understand I am speaking
  to all my comrades. [A voice, "The Twenty-sixth were waiting for the
  cavalry to get out of the way!" Laughter.] Well, during the war you
  were willing to wait, weren't you? [Hearty laughter.] I was going to
  say that I had an express promise from Mr. Adams, of the Twenty-sixth
  Indiana, there should be no speaking on the occasion of your visit.
  [Laughter.] Perhaps his comrades of the Twenty-sixth will say I had
  not sufficient reason for so thinking, as we all know that he is given
  to joking. [Laughter.] I will be pleased now to meet each of you
  personally.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 20.


On September 20 a distinguished delegation arrived from Cincinnati,
for the purpose of inviting General and Mrs. Harrison to attend the
Cincinnati Exposition. The committee, representing the Board of
Commissioners of the Exposition, was headed by Chairman Goodale and
President Allison and wife, accompanied by Mayor Amor Smith and wife,
Comptroller E. P. Eshelby and wife, Hon. John B. Peaslee, Mrs. and Miss
Devereaux, C. H. Rockwell and wife, and others.

In the evening 300 gentlemen, exhibiting implements and agricultural
machinery at the State Fair--then in progress--called on General
Harrison. John C. Wingate, of Montgomery County, was their spokesman.

Responding to their greeting the General said:

  _My Friends_--When I was asked yesterday whether it would be
  agreeable to me to see about one hundred gentlemen who were here in
  attendance upon the Indiana State Fair and connected with the exhibit
  of machinery, I was assured their call would be of the most informal
  character--that they would simply visit me at my home and spend a few
  moments socially. [Laughter.] Until I heard the music of your band and
  saw the torchlights, that was my understanding of what was in store
  for me this evening. I am again the victim of a misunderstanding.
  [Laughter and applause.] Still, though my one hundred guests have been
  multiplied several times, and though I find myself compelled to speak
  to you en masse rather than individually, I am glad to see you. I
  thank you for your visit, and for the cordial terms in which you have
  addressed me. What your speaker has said as to the favorable condition
  of our working people is true; and we are fortunate in the fact that
  we do not need to depend for our evidence on statistics or the reports
  of those who casually visit the countries of the Old World. There is
  probably not a shop represented here that has not among its workingmen
  those who have tried the conditions of life in the old country, and
  are able to speak from personal experience. It cannot be doubted that
  our American system of levying discriminating duties upon competing
  foreign products has much to do with the better condition of our
  working people. I welcome you as representatives of one of the great
  industries of our country. The demands of the farm have been met by
  the ingenuity of your shops. The improvement in farm machinery within
  my own recollection has been marvellous. The scythe and the cradle
  still held control in the harvest field when I first went out to
  carry the noon meal to the workmen. Afterward it sometimes fell to my
  lot in the hay-field to drive one of the old-fashioned combination
  reapers and mowers. It was a great advance over the scythe and cradle,
  and yet it was heavy and clumsy--a very horse-killer. [Laughter and
  applause.] When the drivers struck a stump the horse had no power
  over the machine in either direction. Now these machines have been so
  lightened and improved that they are the perfection of mechanism. Your
  inventive genius has responded to the necessities of the farm until
  that which was drudgery has become light and easy. I thank you again
  for your call, and will be glad to meet personally those strangers who
  are here. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 21.


Randolph and Jay counties, Indiana, contributed 3,000 visitors on
September 21. At the head of the Randolph column marched 200 members
of the "Old Men's Tippecanoe Club," of Winchester, led by Marshals J.
B. Ross, A. J. Stakebake, and Auditor Cranor. Other leaders in the
delegation were Mayor F. H. Bowen, Hon. Theo. Shockley, Geo. Patchell,
W. S. Ensign, Frank Parker, Samuel Bell, Dr. G. Rynard, and Washington
Smith, of Union City; J. W. Macy, J. S. Engle, Reverdy Puckett, A. C.
Beeson, and John E. Markle, of Winchester.

The Jay County contingent was led by James A. Russell, B. D. Halfhill,
Isaac McKinney, J. W. Williams, Eli Clark, J. C. Andrews, T. J.
Cartwright, and Albert Martin. L. C. Hauseman was spokesman for the
Hoosiers. Gen. Stone, of Randolph, spoke on behalf of the veterans.

From Dayton, Ohio, came 500 visitors, including 60 veterans of the
campaign of '40, led by Secretary Edgar. Marshal James Applegate, Mr.
Eckley, Dr. J. A. Ronspert, and W. R. Knaub were other leaders of the
Ohio contingent. Col. John G. Lowe was their speaker, and referred to
the fact that Gen. Harrison "had won his education and Miss Caroline M.
Scott, now his estimable wife, when a resident of Ohio."

To these addresses the General, responding, said:

  _My Ohio and Indiana Friends_--The magnitude and the cordiality of
  this demonstration are very gratifying. That these representatives of
  the State of my nativity, and these, my neighbors in this State of my
  early adoption, should unite this morning in giving this evidence of
  their respect and confidence is especially pleasing. I do remember
  Ohio, the State of my birth and of my boyhood, with affection and
  veneration. I take pride in her great history, the illustrious men she
  furnished to lead our armies, and the army of her brave boys who bore
  the knapsack and the gun for the Union. I take pride in her pure and
  illustrious statesmen. Ohio was the first of the Northwestern States
  to receive the western emigration after the Revolutionary War. When
  that tide of patriotism which had borne our country to freedom and had
  established our Constitution threw upon the West many of the patriots
  whose fortunes had been maimed or broken by their sacrifices in the
  Revolutionary War, this pure stream, pouring over the Alleghanies,
  found its first basin in the State of Ohio. [Cries of "Good! Good!"]

  The waters of patriotism that had been distilled in the fires of the
  Revolution fertilized her virgin fields. [Applause.] I do not forget,
  however, that my manhood has all been spent in Indiana--that all the
  struggle which is behind me in life has this for its field. [Cheers.]

  I brought to this hospitable State only that to which Col. Lowe has
  alluded--an education and a good wife. [Great cheering.] Whatever
  else I have, whatever else I have accomplished, for myself and for
  my family or the public, has been under the favoring and friendly
  auspices of these, my fellow-citizens of Indiana. [Applause.] To
  them I owe more than I can repay. My Indiana friends, you come from
  a county largely devoted to agriculture. The invitation of Nature
  was so generous that your people have generally accepted it. Guarded
  as your early settlers were, and as those of Ohio were, by that
  sword of liberty which was placed at your gates by the ordinance of
  1787, stimulated, as you have been, by the suggestions of that great
  ordinance in favor of morality and education, you have, in your rural
  homes, one of the best communities in the world. [Applause.] You do
  not forget, farmers though you are, that 95 per cent. of the product
  of your farms is consumed at home, and you are too wise to put that
  in peril in a greedy search after foreign trade. [Great applause.] You
  will not sacrifice these great industries that have created in our
  country a consuming class for your products. [Cheers.] I do not think
  that there is any doubt what tariff policy England would wish us to
  adopt, and yet some say that England is trembling lest we should adopt
  free trade here [laughter], and so rob her of other markets that she
  now enjoys. [Laughter.] The story of our colonial days, when England,
  with selfish and insatiate avarice, laid her repressive hand upon our
  infant manufactories and attempted to suppress them all, furnishes
  the first object-lesson she gave us. Another was given when the life
  of this Nation--the child of England, as she has been wont to call
  us, speaking the mother tongue, having many institutions inherited
  from her--was imperilled. The offer of free trade by the Confederacy
  so touched the commercial greed of England that she forgot the ties
  of blood and went to the verge of war with us to advance the cause of
  the rebel Government. [Cheers.] But what England wants, or what any
  other country wants, is not very important--certainly not conclusive.
  [Cheers.]

  What is best for us and our people should be the decisive question.
  [Cheers.] My Randolph County friends, there are State questions that
  must take a strong hold upon the minds of people like yours. The
  proposition to lift entirely out of the range and control of partisan
  politics the great benevolent institutions of the State is one that
  must commend itself to all your people. [Cheers.] If all those friends
  who sympathize with us upon this question had acted with us in 1886 we
  should then have accomplished this great reform. [Applause.] And now,
  to these old gentlemen whose judgment and large experience in life
  gives added value to their kind words; to these young friends who,
  for the first time, take a freeman's place in the line of battle to
  do duty for the right, I give my kindly greetings and best wishes in
  return for theirs. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER


On the afternoon of September 22 General Harrison was visited by 600
Chicago "drummers," organized as the Republican Commercial Travellers'
Association of Chicago and accompanied by the celebrated Second Regiment
Band. They were escorted to the Harrison residence by the Columbia Club
and 200 members of the Republican Commercial Travellers' Escort Club of
Indianapolis, George C. Webster, President; Ernest Morris, Secretary.

The entire business community turned out to greet the visitors as they
marched through the city, performing difficult evolutions, under the
command of Chief Marshal Vandever and his aids--C. S. Felton, P. H.
Brockway, B. F. Horton, Joseph Pomroy, W. H. Haskell, Geo. W. Bristol,
A. C. Boyd, Geo. H. Green, and Secretary H. A. Morgan.

General Harrison's appearance was signalized by a remarkable
demonstration. Col. H. H. Rude delivered the address on behalf of his
associates.

In response General Harrison made one of his best speeches. He said:

  _Sir, and Gentlemen of the Republican Commercial Travellers'
  Association of Chicago_--I bid you welcome to my home. I give you
  my most ardent thanks for this cordial evidence of your interest
  in those great principles of government which are advocated by the
  Republican party, whose candidate I am. I am not unfamiliar with the
  value, efficiency, and intelligence of the commercial travellers
  of our country. [Cheers.] The contribution you make to the success
  of the business communities with which you are identified is large
  and indispensable. I do not doubt that one of the strongest props
  of Chicago's commercial greatness would be destroyed if you were
  withdrawn from the commercial forces of that great city. [Cheers.] The
  growth and development of Chicago has been one of the most marvellous
  incidents in the story of American progress. It is gratifying to know
  that your interest is enlisted in this political campaign. It is very
  creditable to you that in the rush of the busy industries and pushing
  trade of your city you have not forgotten that you are American
  citizens and that you owe service, not to commerce only, but to your
  country. [Great cheering.] It is gratifying to be assured that you
  propose to bring your influence into the great civil contest which is
  now engaging the interest of our people. The intelligence and energy
  which you give to your commercial pursuits will be a most valuable
  contribution to our cause. [Cheers.] The power of such a body of men
  is very great.

  I want now to introduce to you for a moment another speaker--an
  Englishman. Within the last year I have been reading, wholly without
  any view to politics, the story of our diplomatic relations with
  England during the Civil War. The motive that most strongly influenced
  the English mind in its sympathy with the South was the expectancy of
  free trade with the Confederacy [cries of "That's right!"], and among
  the most influential publications intended to urge English recognition
  and aid to the Confederates was a book entitled "The American Union,"
  by James Spence. It was published in 1862, and ran through several
  editions. Speaking of the South he said:

    "No part of the world can be found more admirably placed for
    exchanging with this country the products of industry to mutual
    advantage than the Southern States of the Union. Producing in
    abundance the material we chiefly require, their climate and the
    habits of the people indispose them to manufactures, and leave to
    be purchased precisely the commodities we have to sell. They have
    neither the means nor the desire to enter into rivalry with us.
    Commercially they offer more than the capabilities of another India
    within a fortnight's distance from our shores. The capacity of a
    Southern trade when free from restrictions may be estimated most
    correctly by comparison. The condition of those States resembles
    that of Australia, both non-manufacturing countries, with the
    command of ample productions to offer in exchange for the imports
    they require."

  The author proceeds to show that at the time England's exports to
  our country were only thirteen shillings per capita of our population,
  while the exports to Australia were ten pounds sterling per capita.
  Let me now read you what is said of the Northern States:

    "The people of the North, whether manufacturers or ship-owners,
    regard us as rivals and competitors, to be held back and cramped
    by all possible means. [Applause and cries of "That's it!"] They
    possess the same elements as ourselves--coal, metals, ships, an
    aptitude for machinery, energy and industry--while the early
    obstacles of deficient capital and scanty labor are rapidly
    disappearing. [Applause and a voice, "Exactly!"]

    "For many years they have competed with us in some manufactures
    in foreign markets, and their peculiar skill in the contrivance of
    labor-saving machinery daily increases the number of articles they
    produce cheaper than ourselves. [Loud cheering and a voice, "We'll
    knock them out again!"]

    "Thus, to one part of the world our exports are at the rate of
    ten pounds sterling per head, while those to the Union amount to but
    thirteen shillings per head."

  I have read these extracts because they seemed to me very suggestive
  and very instructive. The South offered free trade to Europe in
  exchange for an expected recognition of their independence by England
  and France. [Cries of "You are right!"] The offer was very attractive
  and persuasive to the ruling classes of England. They took Confederate
  bonds and sent out armed cruisers to prey upon our commerce. They
  dallied with Southern agents, fed them with delusive hopes, and thus
  encouraged the South to protract a hopeless struggle. They walked to
  the very edge of open war with the United States, forgetful of all the
  friendly ties that had bound us as nations, and all this to satisfy
  a commercial greed. We may learn from this how high a price England
  then set upon free trade with a part only of the States. [A voice, "We
  remember it!"]

  But now the Union has been saved and restored. Men of both armies
  and of all the States rejoice that England's hope of a commercial
  dependency on our Southern coast was disappointed. The South is under
  no stress to purchase foreign help by trade concessions. She will now
  open her hospitable doors to manufacturing, capital, and skilled labor.

  It is not now true that either climate or the habits of her people
  indispose them to manufactures. Of the Virginias, North Carolina,
  Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and Missouri, it may be now said, as
  Mr. Spence said of the more northern States, "They possess the same
  elements as ourselves [England]--coal, metals, ships, an aptitude
  for machinery, energy, and industry--while the early obstacles of
  deficient capital and scanty labor are rapidly disappearing." And I
  am sure there is a "New South"--shackled as it is by traditions and
  prejudices--that is girding itself to take part in great industrial
  rivalry with England, which Mr. Spence so much deprecates. These great
  States will no longer allow either Old England or New England to spin
  and weave their cotton, but will build mills in the very fields where
  the great staple is gathered. [Applause.] They will no longer leave
  Pennsylvania without an active rival in the production of iron. They
  surely will not, if they are at all mindful of their great need and
  their great opportunity, unite in this crusade against our protected
  industries.

  Our interests no longer run upon sectional lines, and it cannot be
  good for any part of our country that Mr. Spence's vision of English
  trade with us should be realized. [Cries of "Never! Never!"] Commerce
  between the States is working mightily, if silently, to efface all
  lingering estrangements between our people, and the appeal for the
  perpetuation of the American system of protection will, I am sure,
  soon find an answering response among the people of all the States.
  [Loud cheering.]

  I thank you again for this beautiful and cordial demonstration, and
  will now be glad to meet you personally.




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 25.


The third delegation from Wabash County during the campaign arrived
on September 25, a thousand strong, headed by Hon. Jesse Arnold, Col.
Homan Depew, Thomas Black, W. D. Caldwell, Obed Way, Thomas McNamee,
Rob't Thompson, Wm. Alexander, Robert Wilson, Andrew Egnew, C. S. Haas,
W. W. Stewart, W. H. Bent, Robert Stewart, and W. D. Gachenour. Their
spokesman was Capt. B. F. Williams. Parke County, Indiana, contributed a
large delegation the same day, under the lead of John W. Stryker, Jacob
Church, John R. Johnson, A. O. Benson, W. W. McCune, Joseph H. Jordan,
and A. A. Hargrave, of Rockville, and 300 school children, in charge of
A. R. McMurty. Dr. T. F. Leech was orator for the Parke visitors.

General Harrison spoke as follows:

  _My Wabash County Friends and my Little Friends from Parke_--I
  am very glad to meet you here to-day. My friend who has spoken for
  Wabash County has very truly said that the relations between me and
  the Republicans of that county have always been exceedingly cordial.
  I remember well when I first visited your county in 1860, almost a
  boy in years, altogether a boy in political experience. I was then a
  candidate for Reporter of the Decisions of the Supreme Court of this
  State. You had in one of your own citizens, afterward a distinguished
  soldier, a candidate for that office in the convention that nominated
  me, but that did not interfere at all with the cordial welcome from
  your people when, as the nominee of the party, I came into your
  county. I think from that day to this my name has never been mentioned
  in any convention for any office that I have not had almost the
  unanimous support of the Republicans of Wabash County. [Applause.]
  This is no new interest which you now manifest to-day. The expressions
  of your confidence have been very numerous and have been continued
  through nearly thirty years.

  There is one word on one subject that I want to say. Our Democratic
  friends tell us that there are about a hundred millions--their
  arithmeticians do not agree on the exact figures--in the public
  Treasury for which the Government has no need. They have found only
  this method of using it, viz.: depositing it in the national banks of
  the country, to be loaned out by them to our citizens at interest, the
  Government getting no interest whatever from the banks. I suggested,
  and it was not an original suggestion with me--Senator Sherman has
  advocated the same policy with great ability in the Senate--that
  this money had better be used in buying Government bonds, because
  the Government would make some money in applying it that way, and
  there was no other way in which they could get any interest on it
  at all. But it is said if we use it in this manner we pay a premium
  to the bondholders. But it is only the same premium that the bonds
  are bringing in the market. In other words, as I said the other day,
  capitalists who can use their money as they please--put it out on
  mortgages, at interest, or in any other way--think the Government
  bond at the current rate of premium is a good investment for them.
  Now, the Government can buy those bonds at that premium and save a
  great deal of interest. I will not undertake to give you figures. One
  issue of these bonds matures in 1907, and bears four per cent. annual
  interest. Now, suppose this surplus money were to remain all that
  time in the banks without bringing any interest to the Government;
  is there a man here so dull that he cannot see the great loss that
  would result to the people? I have another objection to this policy:
  the favoritism that is involved in it. We have heard--and from such
  high authority that I think that we must accept it as true--that the
  great patronage appertaining to the office of President of the United
  States involves a public peril. Now, suppose we add to that danger a
  hundred millions of dollars that the Secretary of the Treasury can put
  in this community or that, in this bank or that, at his pleasure; is
  not the power of the executive perilously increased? Is it right that
  the use of this vast sum should be a matter of mere favoritism, that
  the Secretary should be allowed to put $10,000,000 of this surplus
  in Indianapolis and none of it in Kansas City, or $75,000,000 in New
  York and none in Indianapolis? If the money is used in buying bonds it
  finds its natural place--goes where it belongs. This is a most serious
  objection to the present method of dealing with the surplus. But if
  you still object to paying the market premium when we buy these bonds,
  see how it works the other way. The banks deposit their bonds in the
  Treasury to secure these deposits, get the Government money without
  interest, and still draw interest on their bonds. If any of you had a
  note for a thousand dollars due in five years, bearing interest, and
  your credit was so good that the note was worth a premium, and you had
  twelve hundred dollars that you could not put out at interest so as
  to offset the interest on your note, would you not make money by using
  this surplus to take up the note at a fair premium? Would you think
  it wise finance to give the thousand dollars that you had on hand to
  your creditor without interest and allow him to deposit your note with
  you as security, you paying interest on the note until it was due and
  getting no interest on your deposit? [Laughter and applause.].

  I welcome my young friends from Parke County. There is nothing
  fuller of interest than childhood. There is so much promise and
  hope in it. Expectancy makes life very rosy to them and them very
  interesting to us who have passed beyond the turn of life. [Applause.]
  You are fortunate in these kind instructors, who from week to week
  instil into your minds the principles of religion and of morality;
  but do not forget that there is another vine of beauty that may be
  appropriately twined with those--the love of your country and her
  institutions. [Applause.] I thank you again for this cordial evidence
  of your regard. The skies are threatening, and as there is danger that
  our meeting may be interrupted by rain I will stop here in order that
  I may meet each of you personally. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 26.


Ohio and Indiana united to-day again, through their delegations,
aggregating 4,000 citizens, in paying their respects to General
Harrison. The Tippecanoe Veteran Association of Columbus, Ohio, J. E.
St. Clair, President, comprising 200 veterans, whose ages averaged 76
years, was escorted by the Foraker Club of Columbus, led by President
Reeves. The veterans were accompanied by the venerable Judge John
A. Bingham, of Cadiz, and Gen. Geo. B. Wright, of Columbus, both of
whom made addresses. No other club or organization, during the entire
campaign, was the recipient of such marked attentions as the Ohio
veterans; the youngest among them was 68 years of age. Among the oldest
were Wm. Armstrong, aged 91; Ansel Bristol, 80; H. H. Chariton, 84;
Francis A. Crum, 82; Joseph Davis, 84; Henry Edwards, 80; John Fields,
82; John A. Gill, 82; J. L. Grover, 81; J. A. S. Harlow, 87; Harris
Loomis, 84; Dan'l Melhousen, 80; Sam'l McCleland, 80; Judge John Otstot,
86; James Park, 80; Daniel Short, 83; John Saul, 86; George Snoffer,
85; David Taylor, 87; Jacob Taylor, 88; J. D. Fuller, 82, and Luther
Hillery, aged 90, who knew William Henry Harrison before his first
nomination. Prominent in the Foraker Club were Dr. A. W. Harden and D.
K. Reif.

The Tipton County, Indiana, visitation was under the auspices of the
First Voters' Club of the town of Tipton. A large club of Tippecanoe
campaign veterans headed their column, led by Chief Marshal J. A.
Swoveland, assisted by M. W. Pershing, James Johns, John F. Pyke, R. J.
McCalion, Isaac Booth, J. Q. Seright, and J. Wolverton. Judge Daniel
Waugh, of Tipton, was the mouthpiece of the delegation.

From Elkhart County, Indiana, came a notable delegation of a thousand
business men, prominent among whom were State Senator Davis, Hon. Geo.
W. Burt, Daniel Zook, H. J. Beyerle, E. G. Herr, D. W. Neidig, T. H.
Dailey, D. W. Granger, and I. W. Nash, of Goshen; and James H. State, A.
C. Manning, J. W. Fieldhouse, J. G. Schreiner, A. P. Kent, J. H. Cainon,
Frank Baker, and Jacob Berkley, of Elkhart City. Hon. O. Z. Hubbell
was spokesman for the delegation. Judge Bingham's eloquent address was
listened to with marked attention.

General Harrison responded as follows:

  _Gentlemen, my Ohio and Indiana Friends_--Again about this platform
  there are gathered representatives from these two great States. Your
  coming is an expression of a common interest, a recognition of the
  fact that there is a citizenship that is wider than the lines of any
  State. [Cheers.] That over and above that just pride in your own
  communities, which you cherish so jealously, there is a fuller pride
  in the one flag, to which we all give our allegiance, and in the
  one Constitution, which binds the people of these States together
  indissolubly in a Government strong enough to protect its humblest
  citizen wherever he may sojourn. [Prolonged cheers.] Your State
  institutions are based, like those of the Nation, upon the great
  principles of human liberty and equality, and are consecrated to the
  promotion of social order and popular education. But, above all this,
  resting on like foundations, is the strong arch of the Union that
  binds us together as a Nation. You are citizens of the United States,
  and as such have common interests that suggest this meeting. [Cheers.]

  I cannot speak separately to the various organizations represented
  here. There is a broad sense in which you are one. But I cannot omit
  to pay a hearty tribute of thanks to these venerable men who are
  gathered about me to-day. I value this tribute from them more than
  words can tell. I cannot, without indelicacy, speak much of that
  campaign to which they brought the enthusiasm of their earlier life
  and to which their memories now turn with so much interest. If, out
  of it, they have brought on with them in life to this moment and have
  transferred to me some part of the respect which another won from
  them, then I will find in their kindness a new stimulus to duty.
  [Applause and cries, "We have; we have!"] In looking over, the other
  day, a publication of the campaign of 1840, I fell upon a card signed
  by fifteen Democrats of Orange, N. J., giving their reasons for
  leaving the Democratic party. It has occurred to me that it might be
  interesting to some of these old gentlemen. [Cries of "We want to hear
  it!" and "Read it!"]

  It was as follows: "We might give many reasons for this change in
  our political opinions. The following, however, we deem sufficient:
  We do not believe the price of labor in this free country should be
  reduced to the standard prescribed by despots in foreign countries.
  [Applause.] We do not believe in fighting for the country and being
  unrepresented in the councils of the country. We do not believe in an
  exclusive, hard, metallic currency any more than we believe in hard
  bread or no bread! We do not believe it was the design of the framers
  of the Constitution that the President should occupy his time during
  the first term in electioneering for his re-election to a second
  term!" [Loud laughter and applause.] I have read this simply as an
  historical curiosity and to refresh your recollections as to some of
  the issues of that campaign. If it has any application to our modern
  politics I will leave you to make it. [Laughter and applause.] I have
  recently been talking, and have one thing further to say, about the
  surplus.

  There is a very proper use I think that can be made of more than
  twenty millions of it. During the Civil War our customs receipts and
  our receipts from internal taxes, which last had brought under tribute
  almost every pursuit in life, were inadequate to the great drain
  upon our Treasury caused by the Civil War. Our Congress, exercising
  one of the powers of the Constitution, levied a direct tax upon the
  States. Ohio paid her part of it, Indiana paid hers, and so did the
  other loyal States. The Southern States were in rebellion and did
  not pay theirs. Now we have come to a time when the Government has
  surplus money, and the proposition was made in Congress to return this
  tax to the States that had paid it. [Applause.] The State of Indiana
  would have received one million dollars, which my fellow-citizens of
  this State know would have been a great relief to our taxpayers in
  the present depleted condition of our treasury. [Cheers.] I do not
  recall the exact amount Ohio would have received, but it was much
  larger. If any one asks, Why repay this tax? this illustration will
  be a sufficient answer: Suppose five men are associated in a business
  corporation. The corporation suffers losses and its capital is
  impaired. An assessment becomes necessary, and three members pay their
  assessments while two do not. The corporation is again prosperous and
  there is a surplus of money in the treasury. What shall be done with
  it? Manifestly, justice requires that the two delinquents should pay
  up or that there should be returned to the other three the assessment
  levied upon them. [Great cheering.] A bill providing for the repayment
  of the tax was killed in the House of Representatives, not by voting
  it down, but by filibustering, a majority of the House being in favor
  of its passage. And those who defeated the bill by those revolutionary
  tactics were largely from the States that had not paid the tax.
  [Cheers.] I mention these facts to show that twenty millions of the
  surplus now lying in the banks, where it draws no interest, might
  very righteously be used so as to greatly lighten the real burdens
  of taxation now resting on the people--burdens that the people know
  to be taxes without any argument from our statesmen. [Applause and
  laughter.] I am a lover of silence [laughter], and yet when such
  assemblies as these greet me with their kind, earnest faces and their
  kinder words, I do not know how I can do less than to say a few words
  upon some of these great public questions. I have spoken frankly and
  fearlessly my convictions upon these questions. [Cheers and cries of
  "Good! Good!"] And now, unappalled by the immensity of this audience,
  I will complete the accustomed programme and take by the hand such of
  you as desire to meet me personally. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 27.


General Harrison's visitors this day came from Ohio and Pennsylvania.
Hancock and Allen counties, Ohio, sent over a thousand, including
the Harrison and Morton Battalion of Lima, commanded by Capt. Martin
Atmer, and the Republican Veteran Club of Findlay, Rev. R. H. Holliday,
President. The Chief Marshal of the combined delegations was Major S. F.
Ellis, of Lima, hero of the forlorn hope storming column which carried
the intrenchments at Port Hudson, La., June 15, 1863. Prominent members
of the Allen County delegation were Hon. Geo. Hall, Geo. P. Waldorf, S.
S. Wheeler, J. F. Price, W. A. Campbell, J. J. Marks, and Burt Hagedorn.
Major S. M. Jones was spokesman for the visitors.

General Harrison, with his usual vigor, replied:

  _Gentlemen and my Ohio Friends_--The State of my nativity has again
  placed me under obligations by this new evidence of the respect of her
  people. I am glad to meet you and to notice in the kind and interested
  faces into which I look a confirmation of the cordial remarks which
  have been addressed to me on your behalf. You each feel a personal
  interest and, I trust, a personal responsibility in this campaign.
  The interest which expresses itself only in public demonstrations is
  not of the highest value. The citizen who really believes that this
  election will either give a fresh impulse to the career of prosperity
  and honor in which our Nation has walked since the war, or will clog
  and retard that progress, comes far short of his duty if he does not
  in his own place as a citizen make his influence felt for the truth
  upon those who are near him. [Applause.] You come from a community
  that has recently awakened to the fact that beneath the soil which
  has long yielded bounteous harvests to your farmers there was stored
  by nature a great and new source of wealth. You, in common with
  neighboring communities in Ohio and with other communities in our
  State, have only partially realized as yet the increase in wealth
  that oil and natural gas will bring to them, if it is not checked by
  destructive changes in our tariff policy. This fact should quicken and
  intensify the interest of these communities in this contest for the
  preservation of the American system of protection. [Applause.]

  It is said by some of our opponents that a protective tariff has
  no influence upon wages; that labor in the United States has nothing
  to fear from the competition from pauper labor; that in the contest
  between pauper labor and high priced labor pauper labor was always
  driven out. Do such statements as these fall in line with experiences
  of these workingmen who are before me? [Cries of "No, no!"] If that
  is true, then why the legislative precautions we have wisely taken
  against the coming of pauper labor to our shores? It is because
  you know, every one of you, that in a contest between two rival
  establishments here, or between two rival countries, that that shop
  or that country that pays the lowest wages--and so produces most
  cheaply--can command the market. If the products of foreign mills
  that pay low wages are admitted here without discriminating duties,
  you know there is only one way to meet such competition, and that
  is by reducing wages in our mills. [Applause.] They seek to entice
  you by the suggestion that you can wear cheaper clothing when free
  access is given to the products of foreign woollen mills; and yet
  they mention also that now, in some of our own cities, the men, and
  especially the women, who are manufacturing the garments we wear
  are not getting adequate wages, and that among some of them there
  is suffering. Do they hope that when the coat is made cheaper the
  wages of the man or woman who makes it will be increased? The power
  of your labor organizations to secure increased wages is greatest
  when there is a large demand for the product you are making at fair
  prices. You do not strike for better wages on a falling market. When
  the mills are running full time, when there is a full demand at good
  prices for the product of your toil, and when warehouses are empty,
  then your organization may effectively insist upon increased wages.
  Did any of you ever see one of the organized efforts for better wages
  succeed when the mill was running on half time, and there was a small
  demand at falling prices in the market for the product? [Applause.]
  The protective system works with your labor organization to secure
  and maintain a just compensation for labor. Whenever it becomes
  true--as it is in some other countries--that the workingman spends
  to-day what he will earn to-morrow, then your labor organizations
  will lose their power. Then the workman becomes in very fact a part
  of the machine he operates. He cannot leave it, for he has eaten
  to-day bread that he is to earn to-morrow. But when he eats to-day
  bread that he earned last week or last year, then he may successfully
  resist any unfair exactions. [Applause.] I do not say that we have
  here an ideal condition. I do not deny that in connection with some
  of our employments the conditions of life are hard. But the practical
  question is this: Is not the condition of our working people on the
  average comparatively a great deal better than that of any other
  country? [Applause and cries of "Good! Good!"]

  If it is, then you will carefully scan all these suggestions before
  you consent that the work of foreign workmen shall supply our market,
  now supplied by the products of the hands of American workmen. I thank
  you again. The day is threatening and cool, and I beg you to excuse
  further public speech. [Applause.]

At night 200 Pennsylvanians, who came to Indiana to aid in developing
the natural gas industry, called upon General Harrison at his residence,
under the direction of a committee composed of Capt. J. C. Gibney, J.
B. Wheeler, and Geo. A. Richards. Their spokesman was Wm. McElwaine, a
fellow-workman.

General Harrison addressed them and said:

  _Gentlemen_--It is very pleasant for me to meet you to-night in
  my own home. The more informal my intercourse can be made with my
  fellow-citizens the more agreeable it is to me. To you, and all others
  who will come informally to my home, I will give a hearty greeting. I
  am glad to see these representatives from the State of Pennsylvania
  whose business pursuits have called them to make their home with us
  in Indiana. The State of Pennsylvania has a special interest for me
  in the fact that it was the native State of a mother who, though
  nearly forty years dead, still lives affectionately in my memory. I
  welcome you here to this State as those who come to settle among us
  under new conditions of industrial and domestic life, to bring into
  our factories and our homes this new fuel from which we hope so much,
  not only in the promotion of domestic comfort and economy, but in
  the advancement of our manufacturing institutions. Your calling is
  one requiring high skill and intelligence and great fidelity. The
  agent with which you deal is an admirable servant but a dangerous
  master, and through carelessness may bring a peril instead of a
  blessing into our households and into our communities. I am glad that
  Indiana, so long drained upon by the States west of the Mississippi,
  has at last felt in your coming from that stanch, magnificent
  Republican commonwealth some restoration of this drain, which has
  made the struggle for Republican success in Indiana doubtful in our
  previous elections. It is time some of the States east of us, having
  such majorities as Pennsylvania, were contributing not only to our
  business enterprise and prosperity, but to the strengthening of the
  Republican ranks, which have been depleted by the invitations which
  the agricultural States of the West have extended to our enterprising
  young men. I welcome your here to-night, and will be glad to have a
  personal introduction to each of you. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, SEPTEMBER 29.


Ohio and Illinois did honor this day again to the Republican nominee.
From Cleveland came 800 voters; their organizations were the Harrison
Boys in Blue--200 veterans of the Civil War--commanded by Gen. James
Barnett; the Garfield Club, led by Thomas R. Whitehead and Albert M.
Long; the Logan Club, headed by Capt. W. R. Isham, and the German
Central Club. Prominent in the delegation were Hon. Amos Townsend, John
Gibson, and Major Palmer, the blind orator. Gen. E. Myers spoke for the
Buckeyes. The city of Normal, McLean County, Illinois, sent a delegation
of 200 teachers and students of the State Normal School, including 70
ladies. Student William Galbraith spoke for his associates.

General Harrison, in response, said:

  _Gentlemen and Friends_--The organizations represented here this
  morning have for me each an individual interest. Each is suggestive of
  a line of thought which _I_ should be glad to follow, but I cannot, in
  the few moments that I can speak to you in this chilly atmosphere, say
  all that the names and character of your respective clubs suggest as
  appropriate. I welcome those comrades in the Union army in the Civil
  War. [Cheers.]

  Death wrought its work in ghastly form in those years when,
  patiently, fearlessly, and hopefully, you carried the flag to the
  front and brought it at last in triumph to the Nation's capital.
  [Cheers.] Death, since, in its gentler forms, has been coming into
  the households where the veterans that were spared from shot and
  shell abide. The muster-roll of the living is growing shorter. The
  larger company is being rapidly recruited. You live not alone in the
  memories of the war. Your presence here attests that, as citizens, you
  feel the importance of these civil strifes. You recall the incidents
  of the great war, not in malice, not to stir or revive sectional
  divisions, or to re-mark sectional lines, but because you believe
  that it is good for the Nation that loyalty to the flag and heroism
  in its defence should be remembered and honored. [Cheers.] There is
  not a veteran here, in this Republican Club of veterans, who does not
  desire that the streams of prosperity in the Southern States should
  run bank-full. [Cheers.]

  There is not one who does not sympathize with her plague-stricken
  communities, and rejoice in every new evidence of her industrial
  development. The Union veterans have never sought to impose hard
  conditions upon the brave men they vanquished. The generous terms of
  surrender given by General Grant were not alone expressions of his
  own brave, magnanimous nature. The hearts of soldiers who carried
  the gun and the knapsack in his victorious army were as generous as
  his. You were glad to accept the renewal of the Confederate soldier's
  allegiance to the flag as the happy end of all strife; willing that he
  should possess the equal protection and power of a citizenship that
  you had preserved for yourselves and secured to him. [Cheers.] You
  have only asked--and you may confidently submit to the judgment of
  every brave Confederate soldier whether the terms are not fair--that
  the veteran of the Union army shall have, as a voter, an equal
  influence in the affairs of the country that was saved by him for
  both with the man who fought against the flag, and that soldiers of
  neither army shall abridge the rights of others under the law. [Great
  cheering.] Less than that you cannot accept with honor; less than that
  a generous foe would not consent to offer.

  To the gentlemen of the John A. Logan Club let me say: You have
  chosen a worthy name for your organization. Patriot, soldier, and
  statesman, Logan's memory will live in the affectionate admiration of
  his comrades and in the respect of all his opponents. His home State
  was Illinois, but his achievements were national.

  To these German-American Republicans I give a most cordial welcome.
  You have been known in our politics as a people well informed upon all
  the great economic questions that have arisen for settlement. You have
  always been faithful to an honest currency. [Cheers.] The enticements
  of depreciated money did not win you from sound principle. You bravely
  stood for a paper currency that should be the true equivalent of coin.
  [Cries of "Good! Good!"] Those who, like your people, have learned
  the lessons of thrift and economy in your old-country homes, and
  have brought them here with you, realized that above all things the
  laborer needed honest money that would not shrink in his hands when
  it had paid him for an honest day's toil. And now, when another great
  economic question is pressing for determination, I do not doubt that
  you will as wisely and as resolutely help to settle that also.

  As the great German chancellor, that student of human government
  and affairs, turning his thoughtful study toward the history of
  our country since the war, has declared that in his judgment our
  protective tariff system was the source of our strength, that by
  reason of it we were able to deal with a war debt that seemed to be
  appalling and insurmountable, I do not doubt that you, too, men who
  believe in work and in thrift, and so many of whom are everywhere
  sheltered under a roof of their own, will unite with us in this
  struggle to preserve our American market for our own workingmen, and
  to maintain here a living standard of wages. [Cheers.]

  To these students who come fresh from the class-room to give me a
  greeting this morning I also return my sincere thanks. I suggest to
  them that they be not only students of books and maxims, but also of
  men and markets; that in the study of the tariff question they do not
  forget, as so many do, that they are Americans.

  I thank you all again for your visit. I regret that I am not able
  to give you, in my own home, a personal and more cordial greeting. My
  house is not large enough to receive you. [A voice, "Your heart is!"]
  Yes, I have room enough in my heart for all. [Great cheering.] I am
  very sincerely grateful for these evidences of your personal regard.
  Out of them all; out of the coming of these frequent and enthusiastic
  crowds of my fellow-citizens; out of all these kind words; out of
  these kind faces of men and women; out of the hearty "God-speeds" you
  give me, I hope to bring an inspiration and an endowment for whatever
  may be before me in life, whether I shall walk in private or public
  paths. [Great cheering.]

The largest delegation of the day, numbering over a thousand business
men, arrived from Chicago, after stopping _en route_ at several
important points, where their orators, Gen. H. H. Thomas, George
Drigg, and Judge John W. Green, made speeches. Their notable political
organizations were the First Tippecanoe Club of Chicago, 100 veterans
of 1840, led by Dr. D. S. Smith; the Logan Club, and the Twelfth Ward
Republican Club, led by Charles Catlin, E. S. Taylor, Wm. Wilkes, and
Joseph Dixon. Judge Green and Dr. Smith delivered addresses.

General Harrison, responding, said:

  _My Illinois Friends_--It is a source of great regret to me that
  we are not able to make your reception more comfortable. The chill
  of this September evening and of this open grove is not suggestive
  of the hospitable and cordial welcome that our people would have
  been glad to extend to you. Our excuse for this time may be found
  in the vastness of this assemblage. I am pleased to have this fresh
  and imposing evidence of the enthusiasm and interest of the Illinois
  Republicans. [Cheers.] There is nothing in the great history of
  the Republican party that need make any man blush to own himself a
  Republican. [Cheers.] There is much to kindle the enthusiasm of all
  lovers of their country. We do not rest in the past, but we rejoice in
  it. [Cheers.] The Republican party has so consistently followed the
  teachings of those great Americans whose names the world reveres that
  we may appropriately hold a Republican convention on the birthday of
  any one of them. [Cheers.] The calendar of our political saints does
  not omit one name that was conspicuous in peace or war. [Cheers.] We
  can celebrate Jackson's birthday or the anniversary of the battle of
  New Orleans because he stood for the unity of the Nation, and his
  victory confirmed it in the respect of the world. [Great cheering.]
  There is no song of patriotism that we do not sing in our meetings.
  There is no marble that has been builded to perpetuate the glory
  of our soldiers about which we may not appropriately assemble and
  proclaim the principles that we advocate. [Cheers.] We believe in our
  country, and give it our love and first care. We have always advocated
  that policy in legislation which was promotive of the interests and
  honor of our country. [Cheers.] I will not discuss any particular
  public topic to-day, as the conditions are so unfavorable for out-door
  speaking. Let me thank you again for this cordial evidence of your
  interest and for the personal respect which you have shown to me.
  I hope you will believe that my heart is deeply touched in these
  manifestations of the friendliness of my fellow-citizens. If in
  anything I shall come short of the high expectations and hopes they
  have formed, it will not be because I do not feel myself put under
  the highest obligations by these evidences of their friendly regard
  to do my utmost to continue in their respect and confidence. [Great
  cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 2.


The fourteenth week of General Harrison's public receptions opened
this date with the arrival of an enthusiastic Republican club from
the distant city of Tower, Minn., most of whose members were engaged
in the iron industry. They left a huge specimen of Vermilion range
iron ore--weighing over 500 pounds--in the front yard of the Harrison
residence. Prominent in the delegation were Dr. Fred Barnett, Capt.
Elisha Marcom, S. F. White, Chas. R. Haines, John Owens, W. N. Shepard,
N. H. Bassett, S. J. Noble, J. E. Bacon, J. B. Noble, Frank Burke, W. H.
Wickes, Chas. L. White, A. Nichaud, D. McKinley, and Page Norris; also
Geo. M. Smith and W. H. Cruikshank, of Duluth.

Immediately following the reception of the Minnesota visitors came two
large delegations from Fulton and Marshall counties, Indiana. The Fulton
leaders were J. H. Bibler, Dr. W. S. Shafer, Dr. E. Z. Capell, Arthur
Howard, Samuel Heftly, Henry Mow, C. D. Sisson, Arch Stinson, J. F.
Collins, A. F. Bowers, W. J. Howard, and T. M. Bitters, of Rochester.
M. L. Essick was their spokesman. Among the prominent members of the
Marshall County delegation were M. W. Simons, John W. Parks, J. W.
Siders, Edward McCoy, M. S. Smith, John V. Astley, Enoch Baker, I.
H. Watson, and Abram Shafer, of Plymouth. H. G. Thayer delivered the
address.

General Harrison said:

  _My Indiana Friends_--This is a home company to-day. Usually our
  Indiana visitors have met here delegations from other States. I am
  sure you will understand that I place a special value upon these
  evidences of the interest Indiana Republicans are taking in the
  campaign. Whatever the fate of the battle may be elsewhere, it is
  always a source of pride to the soldier and to his leader that the
  part of the line confided to their care held fast. [Applause.] I feel
  that I ought also to acknowledge the friendliness and co-operation
  which has been already extended to us in this campaign by many who
  have differed with us heretofore. [Applause.] It is encouraging to
  hear that the prosperous and intelligent farmers of Marshall and
  Fulton counties have not been misled by the attempt to separate the
  agricultural vote from the vote of the shop. It has seemed to me
  that the Mills bill was framed for the purpose of driving from the
  protection column the agricultural voters, not by showing them favor,
  but the reverse--by placing agricultural products on the free list,
  thus withdrawing from the farmer the direct benefits he is receiving
  from our tariff laws as affecting the products of his labor, hoping
  that the farmers might then be relied upon to pull down the rest
  of the structure. I am glad to believe that we have in Indiana a
  class of farmers too intelligent to be caught by these unfriendly
  and fallacious propositions. [Applause.] I had to-day a visit from
  twenty or more gentlemen who came from the town of Tower, in the
  most northern part of Minnesota, where, within the last four years,
  there has been discovered and developed a great deposit of iron ore
  especially adapted to the manufacture of steel. Within the four years
  since these mines were opened they tell me that about a million tons
  of ore have been mined and sent to the furnaces. They also mentioned
  the fact that arrangements are already being made to bring block coal
  of Indiana to the mouth of these iron mines, that the work of smelting
  may be done there. This is a good illustration of the interlocking of
  interests between widely separated States of the Union [applause]--a
  new market and a larger demand for Indiana coal.

  The attempt is often made to create the impression that only
  particular classes of workingmen are benefited by a protective tariff.
  There can be nothing more untrue. The wages of all labor--labor upon
  the farm, labor upon our streets--has a direct and essential relation
  to the scale of wages that is paid to skilled labor. [Applause.] One
  might as well say that you could bring down the price of a higher
  grade of cotton cloth without affecting the price of lower grades
  as to say that you can degrade the price of skilled labor without
  dragging down the wages of unskilled labor. [Applause.] This attempt
  to classify and schedule the men who are benefited by a protective
  tariff is utterly deceptive. [Applause.] The benefits are felt by all
  classes of our people--by the farmer as well as by the workmen in
  our mills; by the man who works on the street as well as the skilled
  laborer who works in the mill; by the women in the household, and by
  the children who are now in the schools and might otherwise be in the
  mills. [Applause.] It is a policy broad enough to embrace within the
  scope of its beneficent influence all our population. [Applause.]
  I thank you for your visit, and will be glad to meet any of you
  personally who desire to speak to me. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 3.


The Porter-Columbian Club, a local organization named in honor of
Governor Porter, with a membership of 700 workingmen, paid their
respects to General Harrison on this night, commanded by their President
and founder, Marshall C. Woods, who delivered an address.

General Harrison, in reply, said:

  _Mr. Woods and my Friends_--My voice is not in condition to speak at
  much length in this cool night air. I am very deeply grateful for this
  evidence of the respect of this large body of Indianapolis workingmen.
  I am glad to be assured by what has been said to me that you realize
  that this campaign has a special interest for the wage-earners of
  America. [Cries of "Good! Good!"]

  That is the first question in life with you, because it involves the
  subsistence and comfort of your families. I do not wonder then that,
  out of so many different associations in life, you have come together
  into this organization to express your determination to vote for the
  maintenance of the American system of protection. [Great cheering.]

  I think you can all understand that it is not good for American
  workingmen that the amount of work to be done in this country should
  be diminished by transferring some of it to foreign shops. [Applause.]
  Nor ought the wages paid for the work that is done here to be
  diminished by bringing you into competition with the underpaid labor
  of the old country. [Applause.]

  I am not speaking any new sentiment to-night. Many times before the
  Chicago convention I have, in public addresses, expressed the opinion
  that every workingman ought to have such wages as would not only yield
  him a decent and comfortable support for his family, and enable him
  to keep his children in school and out of the mill in their tender
  age, but would allow him to lay up against incapacity by sickness or
  accident, or for old age, some fund on which he could rely. These
  views I entertain to-night. I beg you to excuse further public speech
  and to allow me to receive personally such of you as care to speak to
  me. [Applause.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 4.


Three States did homage to the Republican nominee this date. From Grand
Rapids and Muskegon, Mich., came 500 visitors, under the auspices of the
Belknap Club of Grand Rapids. The wife of Governor Luce was a member
of the delegation, accompanied by R. C. Luce and W. A. Davitt. Other
prominent members were: Judge F. J. Russell, Hon. A. B. Turner, Col. C.
T. Foote, J. B. Pantlind, Don J. Leathers, Col. E. S. Pierce, Wm. A.
Gavett, H. J. Felker, D. G. Crotty, H. J. Stevens, Aldrich Tateum, Louis
Kanitz, A. E. Yerex, and N. McGraft, of Grand Rapids; Thomas A. Parish
and Geo. Turner, of Grand Haven; and John J. Cappon, of Holland. John
Patton, Jr., of Grand Rapids, was orator.

The Ohio visitors came from Tiffin, Seneca County, led by the venerable
A. C. Baldwin, Capt. John McCormick, Albert Corthell, Capt. Edward
Jones, Edward Naylor, and J. B. Rosenburger. The wife of Gen. Wm. H.
Gibson was an honored guest of the delegation, accompanied by Mrs.
Robert Lysle and Mrs. Root. J. K. Rohn was spokesman for the Ohio
visitors.

The third delegation comprised 1,200 voters from Jay County, Indiana,
led by Gen. N. Shepherd, Theodore Bailey, Richard A. Green, John Geiger,
E. J. Marsh, Frank H. Snyder, and M. V. Moudy, of Portland. Jesse M. La
Follette was their speaker.

To these several addresses General Harrison, in response, said:

  _My Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana Friends_--These cordial
  manifestations of your personal regard move me very deeply [applause],
  but I do not at all appropriate to myself the great expressions of
  popular interest of which this meeting is only one. I understand
  that my relation to these public questions and to the people is a
  representative one--that the interest which thus expresses itself is
  in principles of government rather than in men. [Cheers.] I am one
  of the oldest Republicans; my first presidential vote was given to
  the first Republican candidate for that office [applause], and it has
  always been a source of profound gratification to me that, in peace
  and war, a high spirit of patriotism and devotion to our country has
  always pervaded and dominated the party. [Cheers.] When, during the
  Civil War, the clouds hung low, disasters thickened, and the future
  was crowded with uncanny fears, never did any Republican convention
  assemble without declaring its faith in the ultimate triumph of our
  cause [great cheering]; and now, with a broad patriotism that embraces
  and regards the interests of all the States, it advocates policies
  that will develop and unite all our communities in the friendly and
  profitable interchange of commerce as well as in a lasting political
  union. [Applause.] These great Western States will not respond to
  the attempt to excite prejudice against New England. We advocate
  measures that are as broad as our national domain; that are calculated
  to distil their equal blessing upon all the land. [Cheers.] The
  people of the great West recognize and value the great contribution
  which those commonwealths about Plymouth Rock have made to the
  civilization, material growth, and manhood of our Western States.
  [Cheers.] We are not envious of the prosperity of New England; we
  rejoice in it. We believe that the protective policy developed her
  great manufacturing institutions and made her rich, and we do not
  doubt that a continuance of that policy will produce the same results
  in Michigan, Ohio, and Indiana. [Cheers.] We are not content to remain
  wholly agricultural States in our relations to either New England or
  old England. [Applause.] We believe that in all these great Western
  States there are minerals in the soil and energy and skill in the
  brains and arms of our people that will yet so multiply and develop
  our manufacturing industries as to give us a nearer home market for
  much of the products of our soil. [Cheers.] And for that great surplus
  which now and always, perhaps, we shall not consume at home we think
  a New England market better than a foreign market. [Enthusiastic and
  prolonged cheering.] The issue upon this great industrial question
  is drawn as sharply as the lines were ever drawn between contending
  armies. Men are readjusting their party relations upon this great
  question. The appeal that is now made for the defence of our American
  system is finding its response, and many of those who are opposed to
  us upon other questions are committing such questions to the future
  for settlement, while they help us to settle now and for an indefinite
  future the great question of the preservation of our commercial
  independence. [Applause.] The Democratic party has challenged our
  protected industries to a fight of extermination. The wage-earners of
  our country have accepted the challenge. The issue of the contest will
  settle for many years our tariff policy. [Prolonged cheering.] The
  eloquent descriptions to which we have listened of the material wealth
  of the great State of Michigan have been full of interest to us as
  citizens of Indiana. We cannot doubt that the people of a State having
  such generous invitations to the developments of great home wealth in
  manufacturing and mining pursuits will understand the issue that is
  presented, and will cast their influence in favor of that policy which
  will make that development rapid and sure; and more than all, and
  better than all, will maintain in her communities a well-paid class
  of wage-workers. [Cheers.] Our wage-workers vote; they are American
  citizens, and it is essential that they be kept free from the slavery
  of want and the discontents bred of injustice. [Applause.]

  I thank my Michigan friends for these handsome specimens of the
  products of their mines and of their mills. I shall cherish them with
  grateful recollection of this pleasant visit. [Applause.]

  To my Indiana friends, always generous, I return my thanks for this
  new evidence of their esteem. [Cheers.]

  To my Ohio friends, who so often before have visited me with kind
  expressions of their regard, I return the thanks of a native-born
  Ohioan. [Prolonged cheers from the Ohio delegation.]

  Three great States are grouped here to-day. I remember at Resaca,
  when the field and staff of the regiments that were to make the
  assault were ordered to dismount, there was a Michigan officer too
  sick to go on foot and too proud to subject himself to the imputation
  of cowardice by staying behind.

  He rode alone, the one horseman in that desperate charge, and
  died on that bloody hillside rather than subject his State to the
  imputation that one of her sons had lingered when the enemy was to be
  engaged. He was a noble type of the brave men these great States gave
  to the country. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 5.


Wisconsin and Indiana were the States represented at this day's
reception. The Wisconsin visitors came from Madison, Janesville, and
Beloit. Prominent among them were General Atwood, editor Wisconsin
_State Journal_, Surgeon-General Palmer, W. T. Van Kirk, and T. G.
Maudt. R. C. Spooner spoke for the Badgers.

Fountain County, Indiana, sent 2,000 visitors, led by a club of
Tippecanoe veterans. Among their representative men were H. La Tourette,
W. W. Layton, John H. Spence, of Covington; A. H. Clark, and W. H.
Malory, of Veedersburg; A. S. Peacock, H. C. Martin, and C. E. Holm, of
Attica. Capt. Benj. Hegeler, of Attica, delivered the address on behalf
of the Hoosiers.

General Harrison responded as follows:

  _My Wisconsin and my Indiana Friends_--These great daily
  manifestations of the interest of great masses of our people in the
  principles represented by the Republican party are to me increasingly
  impressive. I am glad to-day that Indiana has opportunity to welcome
  a delegation from the magnificent State of Wisconsin. [Cheers.] It
  offers a fitting opportunity to acknowledge my personal obligation and
  the obligation of the Indiana Republicans for the early and constant
  support which Wisconsin gave to the efforts of the Indiana delegation
  in the Chicago convention. [Prolonged cheers.] To-day two States, not
  contiguous in territory, but touching in many interests, are met to
  express the fact that these great electoral contests affect all our
  people. It is not alone in the choice of Presidential electors that
  we have common interests. Our national Congress, though chosen in
  separate districts, legislates for all our people. Wisconsin has a
  direct interest that the ballot shall be free and pure in Indiana, and
  Wisconsin and Indiana have a direct interest that the ballot shall be
  free and pure in all the States. [Great cheering.] Therefore let no
  man say that it is none of our business how elections are conducted in
  other States. [Cheers.] I believe that this great question of a free
  ballot, so much disturbed by race questions in the South, would be
  settled this year if the men of the South who believe with us upon the
  great question of the protection of American industries would throw
  off old prejudices and vote their convictions upon that question.
  [Cheers and cries of "Good! Good!"] I believe there are indications
  that the independent manhood of the South will this year strongly
  manifest itself in this direction. Those intelligent and progressive
  citizens of the South who are seeking to build up within their own
  States diversified industries will not much longer be kept in bondage
  to the traditions of the days when the South was wholly a community of
  planters.

  When they assert their belief in a protective tariff, by supporting
  the only party that advocates that policy, the question of a free
  ballot, so far as it is a Southern question, will be settled forever,
  for they will have the power to insist that those who believe with
  them shall vote, and that their votes shall be counted. [Applause.]
  The protective policy, by developing a home supply and limiting
  importations, helps us to maintain the balance of trade upon our side
  in our dealings with the world. [Cheers.] Under the tariff of 1846
  from the year 1850 to 1860 the balance of trade was continuously
  against us, aggregating in that period over three hundred millions
  of dollars. Under the influence of a protective tariff the balance
  of trade has been generally and largely with us, unless disturbed
  by special conditions. Instead of sending our gold abroad to pay a
  foreign balance we have usually been bringing foreign gold here to
  augment our store. [Cheers.] I will not detain you further. These
  daily demands upon me make it necessary that I shall speak briefly.
  Let me thank most profoundly those gentlemen and ladies from Wisconsin
  who have come so far to bring me this tribute of their respect. I very
  highly value it. These, my Indiana friends, unite with me in thanking
  you for your presence to-day. [Cheers from the Indianians.] To my
  nearer friends, my Fountain County friends, let me say I am profoundly
  grateful to you for this large and imposing demonstration and for the
  interest you are individually taking in this campaign. [Cheers.] I
  do not think of it as a personal campaign. It has always seemed to
  me to be altogether greater than that, and when I thank you for your
  interest and commend your zeal it is an interest in principles and a
  zeal for the truth that I approve. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 6.


Saturday, October 6, was one of the great days of the campaign. The
first delegation, numbering 2,000, came from Wells and Blackford
counties, Indiana. Conspicuous in their ranks were two large uniformed
clubs of ladies, one from Montpelier, and the Carrie Harrison Club of
Bluffton. In the Wells County contingent were many 1840 veterans and
21 newly-converted Democrats. Their leaders were Asbury Duglay, D. H.
Swaim, B. W. Bowman, Peter Ulmer, Silas Wisner, Joseph Milholland, J.
C. Hatfield, and T. A. Doan. J. J. Todd was their spokesman. Prominent
in the Blackford delegation were Frank Geisler, H. M. Campbell, W. L.
Ritter, Eli Hamilton, R. V. Ervin, W. A. Williams, John Sipe, and John
Cantwell, of Hartford City; J. C. Summerville, Wm. Pugh, J. H. Morrical,
G. A. Mason, John G. Ward, and J. M. Tinsley, of Montpelier. Hon. B. G.
Shinn delivered the address on behalf of the Blackford people.

General Harrison confined his speech to State questions. He said:

  _My Wells and Blackford County Friends_--I am glad to meet you.
  It is extremely gratifying to be assured by your presence here
  this inclement day, and by the kind words which you have addressed
  to me through your representatives, that I have some part in your
  friendly regard as an individual. But individuals are not of the
  first importance. That man who thinks that the prosperity of this
  country or the right administration of its affairs is wholly dependent
  upon him grossly exaggerates his value. The essential things to us
  are the principles of government upon which our institutions were
  builded, and by and through which we make that symmetrical and safe
  growth which has characterized our Nation in the past, and which is
  yet to raise it to a higher place among the nations of the earth.
  [Applause.] We are Indianians--Hoosiers, if you please [cheers]--and
  are proud of the State of which we are citizens. Your spokesmen have
  referred with an honest pride to the counties from which you have
  come, and that is well. But I would like to suggest to you that
  every political community and neighborhood has a character of its
  own, a moral character, as well as every man and every woman, and it
  is exceedingly important, looked at even from the side of material
  advantage, that our communities should maintain a good reputation
  for social order, intelligence, virtue, and a faithful and willing
  obedience to law. [Applause.] It cannot be doubted that such a
  character possessed by any State or county attracts immigration and
  capital, advances its material development, and enhances the value
  of its farms. There has been much in the history of Indiana that is
  exceedingly creditable. There have been some things--there are some
  things to-day--that are exceedingly discreditable to us as a political
  community; things that I believe retard the advancement of our State
  and affect its material prosperity by degrading it in the estimation
  of right-thinking men. One of those things is this patent and open
  fact: that the great benevolent institutions of this State, instead
  of being operated upon the high plane that public charities should
  occupy, are being operated and managed upon the lowest plane of party
  purposes and advantage. [Cries of "That's so!"] Another such thing is
  of recent occurrence. In the campaign of 1886, after advising with
  the chief law officer of the State, a Democratic Governor declared
  to the people of this State that there was a vacancy in the office
  of Lieutenant-Governor which the people were entitled to fill at the
  ensuing general election. The Democratic party acted upon that advice,
  assembled in convention in this hall, and nominated John C. Nelson
  for Lieutenant-Governor. The Republican party followed with their
  convention, and placed in nomination that gallant soldier, Robert S.
  Robertson. [Cheers.] These two gentlemen went before the people of
  Indiana and made a public canvass for the office. The election was
  held, and Colonel Robertson was chosen by a majority of about 3,000.
  [Applause.] Is there a man in the State, Democratic or Republican,
  who doubts that if the choice had been otherwise, and Mr. Nelson
  had received a majority at the polls, the House of Representatives,
  which was Republican, would have met with the Democratic Senate in an
  orderly joint meeting, for canvassing the votes, and that Mr. Nelson
  would have been inaugurated as Lieutenant-Governor? [Cries of "No,
  no!"] But the result was otherwise; and the public fame, the good
  reputation of this State, was dishonored when, by force and brutal
  methods, the voice of the people was stifled, and the man they had
  chosen was excluded from the right to exercise the duties of the
  office of Lieutenant-Governor. [Cries of "Yes, yes!"] Do the people
  think that the attractiveness of Indiana as a home for Americans who
  believe in social order and popular government has been increased
  by this violent and disgraceful incident? Do our Democratic friends
  who have an honest State pride, who would like to maintain the honor
  and good reputation of the State, who would have the people of our
  sister States believe that we have a people who believe in a warm
  canvass but in a free ballot, and a manly and ready acquiescence in
  election results, intend to support their leaders in this violent
  exclusion from office of a duly chosen public officer? Do those
  who are Democrats from principle, and not for personal spoils,
  intend to support the men who have first prostituted our benevolent
  institutions to party and now to personal advantage? These things, if
  not reproved and corrected by our people, will not only disgrace us in
  the estimation of all good people, but will substantially retard the
  material development of the State. [Cheers.] I am not talking to-day
  of questions in which I have any other interest than that you have,
  my fellow-citizens. [Applause.] I believe the material prosperity of
  Indiana, much more the honor, will be advanced if her people in this
  State election shall rebuke the shameless election frauds that have
  recently scandalized our State, the prostitution of our benevolent
  institutions, and the wanton violence that overturned the result of
  the popular election in 1886. [Great cheering.]




THE CHICAGO VETERANS.


The great event of the day was the reception tendered the veterans and
citizens from Chicago, Hyde Park, Pullman, South Chicago, and the town
of Lake. They numbered over 3,000, and arrived in the evening, after
stopping _en route_ at Danville, Ill., and Crawfordsville, Ind., to
participate in demonstrations. The Chicago contingent comprised 800
members of the Union Veteran Club, commanded by its President, Capt.
John J. Healy; 600 members of the Veteran Union League, led by Capt.
James J. Healy; the Blaine Club, Second Regiment Band, and many smaller
clubs. Leaders in the delegation were Major McCarty, Col. Dan. W. Munn,
Hon. Stephen A. Douglas, Jr., S. W. King, Charles H. Hann, and others.
Hyde Park sent several hundred rolling-mill men; the city of Pullman 200
car-builders; the town of Lake--"the largest village in the world"--was
represented by a flambeau club, the Lake View Screw Club, and numerous
other organizations. Their leading representatives were Col. J.
Hodgkins, Judge C. M. Hawley, Hon. John E. Cowells, Hon. B. E. Hoppin,
Geo. C. Ingham, Judge Freen, Hon. L. D. Condee, Joseph Hardacre, Edward
Maher, M. J. McGrath, A. G. Proctor, Frank I. Bennett, and Col. Foster.

The visitors were met by about 10,000 citizens and escorted to Tomlinson
Hall. When General Harrison appeared, accompanied by Judge E. B.
Martindale, Chairman of the Reception Committee, there ensued a scene
never to be forgotten by those who witnessed it. The 6,000 people
present arose to their chairs, surrounding the visiting veterans, all
frantically waving flags and banners. The demonstration continued
without abatement for ten minutes. General Harrison stood as if dazed by
the spectacle. Finally ex-Governor Hamilton, of Illinois, secured quiet,
and on behalf of the veterans addressed the gathering, followed by Judge
E. W. Keightly on behalf of the Hyde Park visitors.

General Harrison's response was by many regarded as his greatest speech
of the campaign. He said:

  _Comrades and Friends_--It is a rare sight, and it is one very
  full of interest to us as citizens of Indiana, to see this great
  hall filled with the people of another State, come to evidence their
  interest in great principles of government. [Cheers.] I welcome
  to-night for myself and for our people this magnificent delegation
  from Chicago and Hyde Park. [Cheers.] We have not before in the
  procession of these great delegations seen its equal in numbers,
  enthusiasm, and cordiality. I thank you profoundly for whatever of
  personal respect there is in this demonstration [cheers]; but above
  all, as an American citizen, I rejoice in this convincing proof that
  our people realize the gravity and urgency of the issues involved in
  this campaign. [Cheers.] I am glad to know that this interest pervades
  all classes of our people. [Cheers.] This delegation, composed of the
  business men of Chicago and of the men who wield the hammer in the
  shops, shows a common interest in the right decision of these great
  questions. [Great cheers.]

  Our Government is not a government by classes or for classes of
  our fellow-citizens. [Cheers.] It is a government of the people and
  by the people. [Renewed cheering.] Its wise legislation distills its
  equal blessings upon the homes of the rich and the poor. [Cheers.] I
  am especially glad that these skilled, intelligent workmen coming out
  of your great workshops have manifested, by their coming, to their
  fellow-workmen throughout the country their appreciation of what is
  involved for them in this campaign. [Prolonged cheers.]

  May that God who has so long blessed us as a Nation long defer that
  evil day when penury shall be a constant guest in the homes of our
  working people, and long preserve to us that intelligent, thrifty
  and cheerful body of workmen that was our strength in war and is our
  guaranty of social order in time of peace! [Great cheering.] Comrades
  of the Civil War, it was true of the great Union army, as it is said
  to be of the kingdom of heaven--not many rich. [Cheers.] It was out of
  the homes of our working people the great army came. It was the strong
  arm inured to labor on the farm or in the shop that bore up the flag
  in the smoke of battle, carried it through storms of shell and shot,
  and lifted it again in honor over our national Capital. [Prolonged
  cheers.]

  After so many historical illustrations of the evil effects of
  abandoning the policy of protection for that of a revenue tariff,
  we are again confronted by the suggestion that the principle of
  protection shall be eliminated from our tariff legislation. Have we
  not had enough of such experiments? Does not the history of our tariff
  legislation tell us that every revenue tariff has been followed by
  business and industrial crashes, and that a return to the policy
  of protection has stimulated our industries and set our throbbing
  workshops again in motion? [Cheers.] And yet, again and again, the
  Democratic party comes forward with this pernicious proposition--for
  it has been from that party always that the proposition to abandon our
  protective policy and to substitute a revenue tariff has come. [Cries
  of "That's so!"]

  I had placed in my hands yesterday a copy of the London News for
  September 13. The editor says in substance that, judging the purposes
  of the Democratic party by the executive message of last December,
  the English people were justified in believing that party meant free
  trade; but if they were to accept the more recent utterances of its
  leader, protesting that that was not their purpose, then the editor
  thus states the issue presented by the Democratic party. I read but
  a single sentence: "It is, at any rate, a contest between protection
  and something that is not protection." [Prolonged and wild cheering.]
  It is not of the smallest interest to you what that other thing is.
  [Continued cheering.] It is enough to know that it is not protection.
  [Renewed cheering.] Those who defend the present Democratic policy
  declare that our people not only pay the tariff duty upon all imported
  goods, but that a corresponding amount is added to the price of every
  domestic competing article. That for every dollar that is paid into
  the Treasury in the form of a customs duty the people pay several
  dollars more in the enhanced cost of the domestic competing article.
  Those who honestly hold such doctrines cannot stop short of the
  absolute destruction of our protective system. [Cries of "No, no!"]
  The man who preaches such doctrines and denies that he is on the road
  to free trade is like the man who takes passage on a train scheduled
  from here to Cincinnati without a stop, and when the train is speeding
  on its way at the rate of forty miles an hour, denies that he is going
  to Cincinnati. [Great laughter and cheering.] The impulse of such
  logic draws toward free trade as surely and swiftly as that engine
  pulls the train to its appointed destination. It inevitably brings us
  to the English rule of levying duties only upon such articles as we do
  not produce at home, such as tea and coffee. That is purely revenue
  tariff, and is practically free trade.

  Against this the Republican party proposes that our tariff duty
  shall be of an intelligent purpose, be levied chiefly upon competing
  articles. [Cheers.] That our American workmen shall have the benefit
  of discriminating duties upon the products of their labor. [Cheers.]
  The Democratic policy increases importation, and, by so much,
  diminishes the work to be done in America. It transfers work from the
  shops of South Chicago to Birmingham. [Cries of "Right you are!"]
  For, if a certain amount of any manufactured article is necessary for
  a year's supply to our people, and we increase the amount that is
  brought from abroad, by just so much we diminish the amount that is
  made at home, and in just that proportion we throw out of employment
  the men that are working here. And not only so, but when this equal
  competition is established between our shops and the foreign shops,
  there is not a man here who does not know that the only condition
  under which the American shop can run at all is that it shall reduce
  the wages of its employees to the level of the wages paid in the
  competing shops abroad. [Cheers.] This is, briefly, the whole story.
  I believe we should look after and protect our American workingmen;
  therefore I am a Republican. [Renewed enthusiastic cheering.]

  But I will not detain you longer. [Cries of "Go on!"] You must
  excuse me; I have been going on for three months. [A voice, "And
  you'll go on for four years!"] I am somewhat under restraint in what I
  can say, and others here are somewhat under restraint as to what they
  can appropriately say in my presence. I beg you therefore to allow me,
  after thanking you again for your kindness, to retire that others who
  are here may address you. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 11.


In point of numbers the greatest day of the Indiana campaign was
Thursday, October 11, when over 50,000 visitors arrived from all points
in Indiana and along the border counties of Ohio to participate in the
greeting to the Hon. James G. Blaine, who was the guest of General
Harrison.

From the balcony of the New-Denison Hotel General and Mrs. Harrison,
accompanied by Mr. Blaine, Gen. Adam King, of Baltimore; Col. A. L.
Snowden and Gen. D. H. Hastings, of Pennsylvania; Col. M. J. Murray, of
Massachusetts; Gen. W. C. Plummer, of Dakota; Corporal James Tanner,
of New York; ex-Senator Ferry, of Michigan; Hon. R. W. Thompson,
ex-Governor A. G. Porter, Hon. J. N. Huston, Gen. A. P. Hovey, and Ira
J. Chase, reviewed probably the greatest political parade ever witnessed
in this country outside of the city of New York. Twenty-five thousand
men constituted the marching column, in nine great divisions, commanded
by Col. Charles S. Millard, Chief Marshal, with Gen. James S. Carnahan,
Chief of Staff, and 200 aids. The division commanders and principal aids
were:

First Division, Gen. N. R. Ruckle, of Indianapolis. Chief of Staff,
Charles J. Many, of Indianapolis.

Second Division, Capt. H. M. Caylor, of Noblesville. Chief of Staff,
Major J. M. Watt, of Delphi.

Third Division, John W. Lovett, of Anderson. Chief of Staff, Col. George
Parker.

Fourth Division, Gen. Tom Bennett, of Richmond. Chief of Staff, Capt.
Ira B. Myers, of Peru.

Fifth Division, Col. T. C. Burnside, of Liberty. Chief of Staff, J. W.
Ream, of Muncie.

Sixth Division, Col. J. M. Story, of Franklin. Chief of Staff, Capt.
David Wilson, of Martinsville.

Seventh Division, Col. W. R. McClellen, of Danville. Chief of Staff,
Capt. W. H. Armstrong, of Terre Haute.

Eighth Division, Capt. T. H. B. McCain, of Crawfordsville. Chief of
Staff, Edward Watson, of Brazil.

Ninth Division, Capt. J. O. Pedigo, of Lebanon. Chief of Staff, C. C.
Shirley, of Kokomo.

Mr. Blaine visited the Exposition grounds in the afternoon, where Major
W. H. Calkins introduced him to an audience of about 30,000, to whom he
addressed a few words. At night Mr. Blaine delivered one of his masterly
speeches at Tomlinson Hall to an audience of 6,000. At the close of the
Blaine meeting General Harrison received a delegation from Cincinnati,
consisting of A. B. Horton, H. D. Emerson, Wm. Fredberger, James A.
Graff, H. R. Probasco, Dr. M. T. Carey, Abram Myer, Fred Pryor, and
Walter Hartpense, who called to invite him to attend the Cincinnati
Exposition on "Republican Day." A St. Louis delegation, members of the
Loyal Legion, also paid their respects. Among them were Col. R. C.
Kerens, Col. Nelson Cole, Col. J. S. Butler, Major W. R. Hodges, Captain
Gleason, G. B. Adams, H. L. Morrill, C. H. Sampson, and W. B. Gates.

On October 18 a party of distinguished railroad magnates visited General
Harrison. They were Hon. Chauncey M. Depew, J. D. Layng, H. W. Webb,
Sam'l Barton, Seward C. Webb, and C. F. Cox, of New York; J. De Koven,
of Chicago; S. M. Beach, of Cleveland, and J. Q. Van Winkle, of St.
Louis.

On October 19 General Harrison received informally 150 survivors of
the Eleventh Indiana Regiment, headed by their first colonel, Gen. Lew
Wallace, and General McGinnis.




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 13.


Two large and influential organizations visited General Harrison
on October 13. From Milwaukee came 400 members of the Young Men's
Republican Club--Paul D. Carpenter, President; George Russell,
Secretary. Among other prominent members were Samuel Chandler,
who organized the pilgrimage, and Walter W. Pollock. President
Carpenter--son of the late Senator Matt Carpenter--and C. S. Otjen, a
wage-worker, were spokesmen for the club.

The second and largest delegation was the Chicago German-American
Republican Club--Franz Amberg, President; F. J. Buswick, Secretary.
Accompanying them was the Excelsior Band and sixteen voices from the
Orpheus Maennerchor Society of Chicago. Among the widely known members
with the club were Hon. Chris. Mamer, Louis Huck, Peter Hand, Edward
Bert, Peter Mahr, Henry Wulf, City Treasurer Plantz, N. F. Plotke, and
Alderman Tiedemann. As General Harrison entered the hall the reception
exercises were opened by the Maennerchor Society with the inspiring
hymn--"This is the Lord's own day." Addresses on behalf of the visitors
were made by Hon. Wm. Vocke, Henry Greenbaum, and Andrew Soehngen; also,
General Fred Knefler for the German Republicans of Indiana, and Hon A.
B. Ward, of Dakota.

General Harrison, responding to both visiting delegations, said:

  _My Friends of the German-American Republican Club of Chicago, and
  of the Club of Milwaukee, and my Home German Friends_--I am very
  grateful for the kind words you have addressed to me. The long journey
  most of you have taken upon this inclement day to tender your respects
  to me as the candidate of the Republican party is very convincing
  evidence that you believe this civil contest to be no mock tournament,
  but a very real and a very decisive battle for great principles.
  [Cheers]. My German-American friends, you are a home-loving people;
  father, mother, wife, child are words that to you have a very full
  and a very tender meaning. [Cheers.] The old father and mother never
  outlive the veneration and love of the children in a German household.
  [Cheers.] You have come from the fatherland in families, and have set
  up again here the old hearth-stones. Out of this love of home there
  is naturally born a love of country--it is only the widening of the
  family circle--and so our fellow-citizens of German birth and descent
  did not fail to respond with alacrity and enthusiasm to the call of
  their adopted country when armies were mustered for the defence of the
  Union. [Cheers.] The people of Indiana will long remember the veteran
  Willich and the Thirty-second Regiment of Indiana Volunteers (or First
  German), which he took into the field in 1861. The repulse by this
  regiment alone of an attacking force under General Hindman of 1,100
  infantry, a battalion of Texas Rangers, and four pieces of artillery
  at Rowlett's Station, in December, 1861, filled our people with
  enthusiasm and pride. Again and again the impetuous Texas horsemen
  threw themselves with baffled fury upon that square of brave hearts.
  No bayonet point was lowered, no skulker broke the wall of safety that
  enclosed the flag. [Cheers.]

  Your people are industrious, thrifty, and provident. To lay by
  something is one of life's earliest lessons in a German home. These
  national traits naturally drew your people to the support of the
  Republican party when it declared for freedom and free homes in the
  Territories. [Cheers.] They secured your adherence to the cause of the
  Union in the Civil War. They gave us your help in the long struggle
  for resumption and an honest currency, and I do not doubt that they
  will now secure our sympathy and help in this great contest in behalf
  of our American homes. Your people are largely wage-earners. They have
  prospered under a protective tariff, and will not, I am sure, vote for
  such a change in our tariff policy as will cut them off from their
  wages that margin which they are now able to lay aside for old age and
  for their children.

  And now a word to my young friends from Wisconsin. You have come
  into the possession of the suffrage at an important, if not critical,
  time in our public affairs. The Democratic party out of power was a
  party of negations. It did not secure its present lease of power upon
  the platform or the policies it now supports and advocates. [Cheers.]
  The campaign of 1884 was not made upon the platform of a tariff for
  revenue only. Our workingmen were soothed with phrases that implied
  some regard to their interests, and Democrats who believed in a
  protective tariff were admitted to the party councils and gladly heard
  in public debate. [Cheers.] But four years of power have changed all
  this. Democrats who thought they could be protectionists and still
  maintain their party standing have been silenced or their opinions
  coerced. The issue is now distinctly made between "protection and
  something that is not protection." [Cheers.] The Republican party
  fearlessly accepts the issue and places itself upon the side of the
  American home and the American workingman. [Cheers.] We invite these
  young men who were too young to share the glory of the struggle for
  our political unity to a part in this contest for the preservation of
  our commercial independence. [Cheers.]

  And now to these friends who are the bearers of gifts, one word of
  thanks. I especially value this cane as a token of the confidence and
  respect of the workingmen of Bay View. [Cheers.] I accept their gift
  with gratitude, and would wish you, sir, to bear in return my most
  friendly regards and good wishes to every one of them. I do not need
  to lean on this beautiful cane, but I do feel like resting upon the
  intelligent confidence of the men who sent it. [Great cheering.] I am
  glad to know that they have not stumbled over the simple problem that
  is presented for their consideration in this campaign. They know that
  an increase of importation means diminished work in American shops.
  [Cheers.] To my friend who brings this beautiful specimen of American
  workmanship, this commonly accepted token of good luck, I give my
  thanks. But we will not trust wholly in this symbol of good luck. The
  earnest individual effort of the American people only can make the
  result of this contest so decisive, so emphatic, that we shall not for
  a generation hear any party contest the principle that our tariff laws
  shall adequately protect our own workingmen. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 17.


Ohio's chief executive, Gov. Joseph B. Foraker, escorted by the Garfield
Club and the Fourteenth Regiment Band of Columbus, made a pilgrimage to
the Republican Mecca on October 17. The widely known Columbus Glee Club
accompanied them. Among the prominent Republicans with the delegation
were Auditor of State Poe, Adjutant-General Axline, Hon. Estes G.
Rathbone, C. L. Kurtz, D. W. Brown, C. E. Prior, L. D. Hogerty, J. W.
Firestone, and Ira H. Crum. Escorted by the Columbia Club, the Buckeyes
marched to the residence of General Harrison and were introduced by
Governor Foraker.

In response to their greeting General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen_--It was very appropriate that these representative
  Ohio Republicans should accompany to the State of Indiana your
  distinguished Governor, whose presence among us to-day is so welcome
  to our people. We know his story as the young Ohio volunteer, the
  fearless champion of Republican principles in public debate, and the
  resolute, courageous, and sagacious executive of the great State of
  Ohio. [Applause.] We welcome him and we welcome you. The fame of
  this magnificent glee club has preceded them. We are glad to have an
  opportunity to hear you.

  To these members of the Garfield Club I return my thanks for this
  friendly call. You bear an honored name. I look back with pleasure to
  the small contribution I was able to make in Indiana toward securing
  the electoral vote of this State to that great son of Ohio, whose
  tragic death spread gloom and disappointment over our land. I welcome
  you as citizens of my native State--a State I shall always love,
  because all of my early associations are with it. In this State, to
  which I came in my earliest manhood, the Republicans are as staunch
  and true, as valorous and resolute, as can be found in any of the
  States. You have no advantage of us except in numbers. We welcome
  you all as Republicans. [A voice, "That's what we are!"] We believe
  that our party now advocates another great principle that needs to be
  established--made fast--put where it shall be beyond assault. It is
  a principle which has wrought marvellously in the development of our
  country since the war. It has enabled us to handle a great national
  debt, which our desponding Democratic friends said would inevitably
  sink our country into bankruptcy, so that we are not troubled about
  getting the money to pay our maturing bonds, but are getting it
  faster than our bonds mature. We need to establish this principle of
  protection, the defence of our American workers against the degrading
  and unfriendly competition of pauper labor in all other countries
  [cheers], so unmistakably that it shall not again be assailed. [A
  voice, "Amen!"] Our Democratic friends in previous campaigns have
  deceived the people upon this great question by uncertain and evasive
  utterances. We are glad to know that now they have drawn the issue
  clearly; we accept it. [Applause.] If we shall be able in this
  campaign, as I believe we will, to arouse our people to the importance
  of maintaining our defences against unfair foreign competition,
  we shall administer those who believe in revenue tariffs and in
  progressive free trade a wholesome lesson--one that will last them a
  lifetime. [Cheers.]

  I had resolutely determined when I came upon these steps not to make
  a speech. [Laughter and cries of "Go on!"] I am absolutely determined
  to stop now. [Laughter.] I shall be glad to meet the members of these
  escort clubs personally in my house. [Three cheers.]

Later in the day about 100 survivors of the Seventy-ninth Indiana
Regiment, led by their first colonel, General Fred Knefler, called on
General Harrison, and were presented by their leader in a brief speech,
in response to which General Harrison, speaking from his doorway, said:

  _General Knefler and Comrades_--I am always deeply touched when
  my comrades visit me and offer their kindly greetings. I have no
  higher ambition than to stand well in the estimation of my comrades
  of the old Union army. I will not speak of any political topic. These
  men who stand before me gave the supreme evidence of their love and
  devotion to their country. No man could give more than they offered.
  The perpetuity of our institutions, the honor of what General Sherman
  so felicitously called the "old glory," demand the country shall
  always and in every appropriate way honor and reward the men who kept
  it a Nation. Whatever may be said of our great prosperity since the
  war, and it can scarcely be exaggerated, if we look for the cause
  under God, is it not found in the stout hearts of these men? They
  have opened this wide avenue of prosperity and honor in which we are
  moving. It will be a shame if our people do not in every way properly
  recognize that debt and properly honor the men who gave this supreme
  evidence of their devotion to the country and its institutions.
  Thanking you again for this visit, I will be glad if you will enter my
  house and let me meet you personally.




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 20.


For the fifth time during the campaign the commercial travellers visited
General Harrison, each time with increased numbers. On Saturday,
October 20, under the supervision of the Commercial Travellers'
Republican Club of Indianapolis--G. C. Webster, President; Ernest
Morris, Secretary--they held one of the largest and most successful
demonstrations of this remarkable campaign. Their gathering partook
of a national character, as large numbers of "drummers" were present
from Massachusetts, New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, Michigan,
Illinois, Missouri, West Virginia, and Vermont, while every important
city in Indiana sent its complement.

The visitors were received by a local committee of travelling men,
consisting of Fred Schmidt, Chairman; C. McPherson, Wm. Faucet, Joseph
Stubbs, Jeff Cook, Ed. Allcott, J. C. Norris, M. P. Green, Geo. White,
O. W. Morman, Chas. D. Pearson, Jeff Taylor, Wm. P. Bone, Henry Ramey,
Albert A. Womack, John A. Wright, James W. Muir, and Frank Brough. It
was estimated that 40,000 spectators witnessed their fine parade, a
conspicuous feature of which was a big bull covered with a white cloth
on which was printed the words--"John Bull rides the Democratic party
and we ride John Bull." On his back rode "Drummer" Dan'l B. Long in an
emerald suit, while L. A. Worch, dressed as Uncle Sam, led the bovine.
The parade was in charge of Chief Marshal J. R. Ross and his aids. As
the column passed their residence it was reviewed by General and Mrs.
Harrison. Later in the day the visitors were received at Tomlinson Hall.
When General Harrison appeared a great demonstration occurred. President
Webster presided; the speakers were: John E. Dowell, of Boston; R. T.
Dow, of Atlanta; C. L. Young and John L. Fennimore, of Columbus, Ohio;
Chas. P. Banks, of Brooklyn; John L. Griffiths and John C. Wingate, of
Indiana.

General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--Four times already, I believe, the commercial
  travellers have honored me by calling upon me in large delegations.
  You have assembled to-day, not from a single State or locality, but
  from many States, upon the invitation of your associates of this
  city, to show your intelligent interest in the principles that are
  involved in this campaign. [Cheers.] I do not need to repeat what I
  have said on former occasions, that I very highly value the respect
  and confidence of the commercial travellers of the United States.
  [Cheers.] I value it because I believe they give their adherence to
  the party whose candidate I am upon an intelligent investigation and
  upon an earnest conviction as to what is good for the country of which
  they are citizens. [Cheers.] Who should be able, better than you, to
  know the commercial and business needs of our country? You, whose hand
  is every day upon the business pulse of the people; you, who travel
  the country up and down upon all the swift highways of commerce, and
  who are brought in contact with the business men of the country, not
  only in our great centres of commerce, but in all the hamlets of the
  land. I believe I may say for you that, as a result of this personal
  knowledge of our business needs, you have concluded that the policy
  for America is the policy of a protective tariff. [Great cheering.]

  There are doubtless here many representatives of great American
  manufacturing establishments; and who should know better than they the
  prostrating effects upon the industries they represent of this policy
  of a revenue tariff, or the not much differing policy of free trade?
  [Cheers.] Who should know better than you that if the discriminating
  duties now levied, which enable our American manufacturers to maintain
  a fair competition with the manufacturers of other countries, and at
  the same time to pay a scale of living wages to the men and women who
  work for them, is once broken down, American competition with foreign
  production becomes impossible, except by the reduction of the scale
  of American wages to the level of the wages paid abroad? [Cheers.]
  Certainly you do not need to be told that that shop or mill that
  has the smallest pay-roll in proportion to its production will take
  the market. [Cheers.] Certainly you do not need to be told that the
  wages now enjoyed by our American workmen are greatly larger and the
  comforts they enjoy greatly more than those enjoyed by the working
  people of any other land. [Cheers.] Certainly you do not need to be
  told that if the American Government, instead of patronizing home
  industries, buys its blankets for the public service in England there
  is just that much less work for American workmen to do. [Cheers.] This
  is to me the beginning and the end of the tariff question. Since I
  was old enough to have opinions or to utter them, I have held to the
  doctrine that the true American policy was that which should maintain
  not only a living rate of wages, but one with a margin for savings and
  comfort for our workmen. I believe that policy is essential to the
  prosperity and possibly to the perpetuity of our Government. [Cheers.]
  The two propositions that now stare our working people--and our whole
  country--in the face are these: competition with foreign countries,
  without adequate discriminating and favoring duties, means lower wages
  to our working people; a revenue-only tariff, or progressive free
  trade, means larger importations of foreign goods, and that means less
  work in America. [Cheers.]

  Let our Democratic friends fairly meet these two indisputable
  conclusions. How do they do it? [Cries, "They don't; they can't!"]
  By endeavoring to prevent and poison the minds of our working people
  by utterly false and scandalous campaign stories. [Enthusiastic
  cheering.] Let me say in conclusion that I believe the managers of
  the Democratic campaign greatly underestimate the intelligence,
  the sense of decency, and the love of fair play that prevail among
  out people. [Great cheering.] You will pardon further remark. The
  evening is drawing on, and many of you, I am sure, have been made
  uncomfortable by your muddy walk through the streets of our city. I
  cannot omit, however, to thank my friends from Lafayette for this
  beautiful floral tribute which they have placed at my side--an emblem
  of their profession. [Floral gripsack.] I accept it gratefully, and
  very highly appreciate it as a mark of the confidence and respect of
  the intelligent body of my own fellow-citizens of Indiana. [Great
  cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 22.


Three thousand enthusiastic citizens of Springfield, Clarke County,
Ohio, paid their respects to the Republican nominee on this date, under
the auspices of the Republican White Hat Brigade, Gen. A. S. Bushnell,
Commander; E. T. Thomes, Vice-Commander; S. J. Wilkerson, Chief of
Staff; J. W. R. Cline, Sam'l Hoffman, and J. H. Arbogast, Aids. The
brigade, comprising 2,300 voters, each wearing a white beaver hat, was
divided into three regiments and accompanied by six excellent bands.

The First Regiment was commanded by Col. J. A. Dickus, Lieut.-Col.
Geo. Lentz, Major Henry Harper. Second Regiment--Col. Wm. F. Bakhaus,
Lieut.-Col. Darwin Pierce, Major Wm. Robinson. Third Regiment--Col.
H. N. Taylor, Lieut.-Col. Henry Hains, Major P. M. Hawk. When General
Harrison entered the hall every Buckeye stood on his chair and
frantically waved his high hat in one hand and a flag in the other.
General Bushnell made the presentation address, to which General
Harrison responded as follows:

  _General Bushnell and my Ohio Friends_--The people of Clarke
  County owed me a visit. I recall, with great pleasure, two occasions
  when I visited your prosperous county and the rich and busy city
  of Springfield to speak in behalf of the Republican party and its
  candidates. I recall with pleasure the cordiality with which I was
  received by your people. [Applause.] I noted then the intelligent
  interest manifested by the masses of your people in public questions,
  and the enthusiasm with which you rallied to the defense of Republican
  principles. [Cheers.] We are glad to welcome you to Indiana, but
  regret that this inclement day and our muddy streets have thrown
  about your visit so many incidents of discomfort. I hope that you
  will not allow these incidents to give you an unfavorable impression
  of the beautiful capital city of Indiana. [Cheers and cries of "We
  won't!"] Our people are glad to have this added evidence of the
  interest which the people of your State take in the question which
  the issue of this campaign will settle. I say settle, because I
  believe that the question of the life of protective tariff system is
  now very distinctly presented. The enemies of the system have left
  their ambuscades and taken to the open field, and we are to have a
  decisive battle over this question. [Great cheers.] I believe that
  never before, in any campaign, has this question been so fully and
  ably discussed in the hearing of our people. [Cheers.] There can
  be found nowhere in this country a better illustration of what a
  great manufacturing centre will do for the farmer in enhancing the
  value of his farm and in furnishing a home market for his products
  than the city of Springfield. [Cheers.] Your city and county--your
  merchants and farmers--are prosperous, because you have a great body
  of well-paid wage-earners in your great shops and factories. [Cheers.]
  It is the policy of the Republican party to multiply, all through our
  agricultural regions, such centres of manufacturing industries as
  Springfield. [Cheers.] It is conceded that to all our working people,
  all those who earn their subsistence by toil, this campaign involves
  most important interests. I will not pursue in its details this
  question. You have heard it discussed, and most of you, perhaps all,
  have made up your conclusions. It is of such importance as, wholly
  without respect to the candidate who may by chance represent it, to
  be worthy of the intelligent and earnest thought and vigorous effort
  of every American citizen. [Cheers.] Let me now only thank you for
  this most remarkable evidence of the interest of your people. We have
  rarely, if it all, seen here, in this long procession of delegations,
  one that equalled that which I see before me now. [Great cheering.]

At the conclusion of General Harrison's speech General Bushnell
presented him with a highly polished horse-shoe, manufactured from
American steel by S. B. Thomas, formerly an Englishman. Repeated calls
for Mr. Thomas brought that gentleman out, and there was another
prolonged demonstration as General Harrison cordially clasped his hand
and said:

  I accept with pleasure this product of the skill and industry of
  one who, out of his own experience, can speak of the benefits of a
  protective tariff. One who sought our land because it offered better
  wages and better hopes [cheers], and who in his life here has been
  able to contrast the condition of working people in England and in
  America. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 25.


During the campaign in Indiana several prominent labor representatives
from the East canvassed the State in advocacy of a protective tariff
and the Republican ticket. Chief among these speakers were Charles H.
Litchman, of Massachusetts, ex-Secretary-General of the Knights of
Labor; John J. Jarrett, Hon. Henry Hall, Eccles Robinson, and Robert
D. Layton, of Pennsylvania, and Jeremiah Murphy, of New York. These
gentlemen, assisted by John R. Rankin, Marshall C. Woods, and other
prominent Indiana labor leaders, signalized the conclusion of their
campaign work by a notable workingmen's demonstration on October 25.
About 10,000 voters from over the State participated in the parade, led
by Chief Marshal John R. Rankin, assisted by C. A. Rodney, George E.
Clarke, Wm. R. Mounts, John Baker, Fred Andler, Wm. H. Baughmier, Geo.
E. Perry, Lewis Rathbaust, J. N. Loop, Wm. Cook, Gustave Schneider, John
W. Browning, A. Raphel, and Michael Bamberger.

General Harrison, with Hon. William McKinley, Jr., of Ohio, Senator John
C. Spooner, of Wisconsin, and Senator Henry W. Blair, of New Hampshire,
reviewed the column and later attended a great meeting at Tomlinson
Hall. Many ladies occupied seats on the stage, among them Mrs. Harrison.
When General Harrison appeared, escorted by Secretary Litchman, the vast
audience arose and cheered frantically for full five minutes.

L. W. McDaniels, a prominent member of the Typographical Union,
presided, and in his address among other things said:

  We are here to repudiate the authority claimed by a few professional
  men to speak for the wage-workers of Indiana, to deny the truthfulness
  of their statements, and to contradict the assertion that there is
  other than the kindliest feeling among the workingmen of Indiana
  toward General Harrison. While General Harrison has never acted the
  blatant demagogue by making loud professions, yet we have had evidence
  of his earnest sympathy and sincere friendship on more than one
  occasion, notably his advocacy while in the Senate of the bill making
  arbitration the means of settlement of labor troubles and excluding
  contract labor from our shores. Also the bill prohibiting the use of
  convict labor on Government works, or the purchasing by the Government
  of any of the products of convict labor.

As General Harrison arose to respond there was another prolonged
outbreak; he appeared greatly moved, and delivered probably his most
earnest speech of the campaign. The demonstrations of approval were very
marked, especially as the General warmed up to his denials of matters
suggested by Chairman McDaniels' remarks. He said:

  _Mr. McDaniels and my Friends_--I have seen, during this
  busy summer, many earnest and demonstrative assemblages of my
  fellow-citizens. I have listened to many addresses full of the kindest
  expressions toward me personally; but, among them all, none have been
  more grateful to me, none have more deeply touched me than this great
  assemblage of the workingmen of Indiana and these kind words which
  have been addressed to me in your behalf. [Great cheering.] There
  are reasons why this should be so that will readily occur to your
  minds, and to some of which Mr. McDaniels has alluded. Early in this
  campaign certain people, claiming to speak for the laboring men, but
  really in the employ of the Democratic campaign managers, promulgated
  through the newspaper press and by campaign publications that were not
  given the open endorsement of the Democratic campaign managers, but
  were paid for by their funds and circulated under their auspices, a
  number of false and scandalous stories relating to my attitude toward
  organized labor. [Great and prolonged cheering.] The purpose of all
  these stories was to poison the minds of the workingmen against the
  candidate of the party that stands in this campaign for the principle
  of protection to American labor. [Great cheering.] I have only once,
  in all the addresses I have made to my fellow-citizens, alluded to
  these malicious and scandalous stories, but, now and in the presence
  of this great gathering of workingmen, I do pronounce them to be
  utterly false. [Tumultuous cheering, waving of flags and banners,
  continued for several minutes.] The story that I ever said that one
  dollar a day was enough for a workingman, with all its accompaniments
  and appendages, is not a perversion of anything I ever said--it is a
  false creation. [Enthusiastic cheering.] I will not follow in detail
  this long catalogue of campaign slanders, but will only add that it is
  equally false that anywhere or at any time I ever spoke disparagingly
  of my fellow-citizens of Irish nativity or descent. Many of them
  are now enrolling themselves on the side of protection for American
  labor--this created the necessity for the story. [Cheers.] I want
  to say again that those who pitch a campaign upon so low a level
  greatly underestimate the intelligence, the sense of decency, and
  the love of fair play of the American people. [Prolonged cheering.]
  I said to one of the first delegations that visited me that this was
  a contest of great principles; that it would be fought out upon the
  high plains of truth, and not in the swamps of slander and defamation.
  [Great cheering.] Those who will encamp their army in the swamp will
  abandon the victory to the army that is on the heights. [Cheers.]
  The Republican party stands to-day as the bulwark and defense of the
  wage-earners of this country against a competition which may reduce
  American wages even below the standard they falsely impute to my
  suggestion. [Cheers.]

  There are two very plain facts that I have often stated--and others
  more forcibly than I--that it seems to me should be conclusive with
  the wage-earners of America. The policy of the Democratic party--the
  revision of our tariff laws as indicated by the Democratic party,
  a revenue-only tariff, or progressive free trade--means a vast and
  sudden increase of importations. Is there a man here so dull as not to
  know that this means diminished work in our American shops? [Cheers
  and cries of "No, no!"] If some one says that labor is not fully
  employed now, do you hope it will be more fully employed when you
  have transferred one-third of the work done in our shops to foreign
  workshops? [Cries of "No, no!"] If some one tells me that labor is not
  sufficiently rewarded here, does he hope to have its rewards increased
  by striking down our protective duties and compelling our workmen to
  compete with the underpaid labor of Europe? [Cheers.]

  I conclude by saying that less work and lower wages are the
  inevitable result of the triumph of the principles advocated by the
  Democratic party. [Cheers.]

  And now you will excuse further speech from me. [Cries of "Go
  on!"] There are here several distinguished advocates of Republican
  principles. You will be permitted to hear now, I understand, from the
  Hon. Henry W. Blair, a Senator from the State of New Hampshire, who
  has been so long at the head of the Committee on Education and Labor
  in the United States Senate; and to-night in this hall you will be
  permitted to listen to the Hon. William McKinley, Jr., of Ohio. Now
  will you allow me again to thank you out of a full heart for this
  cordial tender of your confidence and respect. I felt that in return I
  could not omit to say what I have said, not because you needed to be
  assured of my friendliness, but in recognition of a confidence that
  falsehood and slander could not shake. I have not thought it in good
  taste to make many personal references in my public addresses. If any
  one thinks it necessary that a comparison should be instituted between
  the candidates of the two great parties as to their friendliness to
  the reforms demanded by organized labor, I must leave others to make
  it. [Great cheering.]




INDIANAPOLIS, OCTOBER 27.


The railroad men of Indiana held their last gathering of the great
campaign on Saturday night, October 27. Its estimated 7,000 voters
participated in their parade under Chief Marshal A. D. Shaw and
Chief of Staff Geo. Butler. The Porter Flambeau Club, the Harrison
Zouaves, and 1,000 members of the Indianapolis Railroad Club--each
man carrying a colored lantern--escorted the visiting organizations.
General Harrison and the Hon. W. R. McKeen, of Terre Haute, reviewed
the brilliant procession from the balcony of the New-Denison and then
repaired to Tomlinson Hall, where the General's arrival was signalized
by an extraordinary demonstration. Chairman Finch introduced Hon.
Mathew O'Doherty, of Louisville, and A. F. Potts, of Indianapolis, who
addressed the meeting later in the evening.

General Harrison was the first speaker. He said:

  _My Friends of the Railroad Republican Clubs_--Before your committee
  waited upon me to request my presence here to-night I had resolutely
  determined that I would not make another address in this campaign. But
  when they presented their suggestion that I should meet my railroad
  friends, I said to them--the kindness which has been shown to me from
  an early period in this campaign by the railroad men of Indiana has
  been so conspicuous and so cordial that I could not deny any request
  that is presented in their name. [Cheers.] And so I am here to-night,
  not to speak upon any political topic, but only to express, if I
  can find words to express, the deep and earnest thankfulness I feel
  toward you who have shown so much kindness and confidence in me.
  [Cheers.] Very early in this campaign there were those who sought to
  make a breach between you and me. You did not wait for my answer, but
  you made answer yourselves. [Cheers.] And time and again you have
  witnessed your faith that my disposition toward you and toward the men
  who toil for their living was one of friendliness, and the principles
  which I represented and have always advocated were those that promoted
  the true interests of the workingmen of America. [Cheers.] I have
  always believed and held that the prosperity of our country, that the
  supremacy of its institutions and its social order all depended upon
  our pursuing such a policy in our legislation that we should have in
  America a class of workingmen earning adequate wages that would bring
  comfort into their homes and maintain hope in their hearts. [Cheers.]
  A despairing man, a man out of whose horizon the star of hope has
  gone, is not a safe citizen in a republic. [Cheers.] Therefore I would
  preserve against unfriendly competition the highest possible scale of
  wages to our working people. [Great cheering.]

  I know the stout hearts, I know the intelligence, I know the
  enterprise of those men who man our railway trains and push them at
  lightning speed through darkness and storm. I know the skill and
  faithfulness of those who sit at the telegraph instrument, holding
  in their watchfulness the safety of those who journey. I know the
  fidelity of the men who conduct this business, which has grown to
  be a system as fine and perfect as the finest product of mechanical
  art. [Cheers.] And so I value to-night this evidence of your cordial
  respect; and let me say that whatever may happen to me in the future,
  whether I shall remain a citizen of Indianapolis to bear with you
  the duties and responsibilities of private citizenship, or shall be
  honored with office, I shall never forget this great demonstration of
  your friendliness. [Prolonged cheers.]

General Harrison's unequalled campaign of speech-making closed on the
afternoon of this day with a visit from 80 young lady students of
Oxford, Ohio, College. They were organized as the "Carrie Harrison Club
of Oxford," and their visit was in honor of that distinguished lady,
who, 36 years before, as Miss Carrie Scott, graduated from this same
institution, of which her venerable father, the Rev. Dr. John W. Scott,
was the first President. The students were accompanied by President and
Mrs. Faye Walker and Professors Wilson, Fisher, and Dean.

Miss Nellie F. Deem, of Union City, Indiana, the youngest teacher in
the college, addressed Mrs. Harrison on behalf of the school. General
Harrison responded briefly in a happy little speech, in which he
expressed the pleasure felt by both over the visit of the Oxford young
ladies. He spoke of their mutual memories of the school and the happy
days spent in its charming surroundings, and said they both rejoiced
in the prosperity of the college, noted as it was for its scholarship
and the Christian training of its pupils. In conclusion he thanked them
for their visit, and assured them that the kind words spoken of Mrs.
Harrison and himself were fully appreciated and would be long remembered.




INDIANAPOLIS, NOVEMBER 5.


The last day of the great campaign brought a delegation of nearly 100
ladies and gentlemen from Terre Haute, Indiana, who came to deliver a
handsome present of a miniature silver-mounted plush chair, designated
the "Presidential Chair." They also brought Mrs. Harrison a valuable
flower-stand, voted to her at Germania Fair as the most popular lady. In
returning thanks for these gifts and their visit General Harrison said:

  _Captain Ebel and Gentlemen_--I am very much obliged to you for this
  friendly visit. It comes in the nature of a surprise, for it was only
  a little while ago that I was advised of your intention. I thank you
  for this gift. It is intended, I suppose, as a type, and a type of a
  very useful article, one that does not come amiss in any station of
  life. Only those who for months found their only convenient seat upon
  a log or a cracker-box know what infinite luxury there was in even a
  common Windsor chair. We are glad to welcome you to our home, and will
  be glad to greet personally the members of this club and those ladies
  who accompany you.

The General then, in behalf of Mrs. Harrison, thanked the ladies for
their present to her.




THE ELECTION, NOVEMBER, 1888.


It is not the purpose of this work to more than chronicle the result
of the great presidential campaign of 1888. The election fell on
November 6. Twenty States gave the Republican candidate 233 votes in the
Electoral College, and 18 States cast 168 votes for Mr. Cleveland, the
Democratic candidate. The total vote cast in the 38 States, for the 7
electoral tickets, was 11,386,632, of which General Harrison received
5,440,551. The Republican electoral ticket was chosen in Indiana by a
plurality of 2,392 votes.

When it became evident that General Harrison had won the election a
demonstration without parallel was inaugurated at Indianapolis and
continued three days. The exciting street parades and gatherings
witnessed at the time of his nomination were re-enacted with tenfold
energy and enthusiasm. Delegations came from all points in the State
to offer their congratulations, and 10,000 telegrams and letters from
distinguished countrymen poured in upon the successful candidate. From
an early hour on the morning of the 7th, for days thereafter, the
streets of Indianapolis were thronged with enthusiastic visitors.

The first delegation to call upon General Harrison after his election
came from Hendricks County, numbering 400 veterans and others, headed
by Ira J. Chase, the newly elected Lieutenant-Governor, Rev. J. H.
Hull, and John C. Ochiltree. General Harrison made no formal response
to their congratulatory address. On November 9 a delegation from the
Commercial Club of Cincinnati arrived, and at night the saw-makers of
Indianapolis--about 100 in number--bedecked in red from head to foot,
marched with glaring torches to the residence of General Harrison, and
after a serenade called upon him for a speech.

Coming out on the steps the General said:

  The time for speech-making is over. The debate is closed, and I
  believe the polls are closed. ["Right you are!"] I will only thank
  you for your call to-night and for that friendly spirit which you have
  shown to me during the campaign.


_A Famous Telegram._

The State of New York gave Harrison (Rep.) over Cleveland (Dem.) a
plurality of 13,074 votes; but for Governor--at the same election--the
State gave David B. Hill (Dem.) a plurality of 19,171 over Warner
Miller (Rep.). These opposite results called forth the following famous
telegram from the President-elect:

                                          INDIANAPOLIS, IND., Nov. 9, 1888.
  _To_ HON. WARNER MILLER, _Herkimer, N. Y._:

  I am greatly grieved at your defeat. If the intrepid leader fell
  outside the breastworks, the column, inspired by his courage, went on
  to victory.

                                                  BENJAMIN HARRISON.




INDIANAPOLIS, JANUARY 1, 1889.


The installation of officers by George H. Thomas Post, G. A. R., on the
night of New Year's Day, '89, was attended by General Harrison, who for
many years had been an active member of this post. Many comrades from
other posts in the city were present. The President-elect was escorted
by Col. Irvin Robbins, who was commander of the Democratic regiment
during the recent campaign, and Col. George W. Spahr, who commanded a
Republican regiment. He was received with full honors by the retiring
commander, James B. Black, who presented him to the post.

In response to their enthusiastic greeting, General Harrison--speaking
in public for the first time since his election--in substance said:

  _Commander and Comrades_--It affords me pleasure to meet with you
  again on this occasion. When I left the army so many years ago I
  little expected to enter it again, as I soon will. Among the many
  honors which may be placed on me in the future there will be none, I
  can assure you, that I will esteem more highly than my membership in
  this order, instituted by those who sustained the flag of Washington,
  the flag of Perry, the flag that was baptized in the blood of the
  Revolution and again in the second conflict with the mother country;
  that floated over the halls of the Montezumas, and was sustained
  in other wars, and which you made possible to wave over every foot
  of our beloved country. I esteem it my greatest honor that I bore
  even an humble part with you and all the comrades of the Grand Army
  in bringing about this most desirable result. I wish to say before
  parting with you, if I may never look upon your faces collectively
  again, that the parting request I would make of you would be that each
  of you, without regard to party (and I believe I can say this without
  offence to any comrade of the Grand Army), stand shoulder to shoulder,
  as we did during the war, to preserve a free and honest ballot.
  There is nothing, I can assure you, that will do more to preserve
  and maintain our institutions than this. Our country, separated as
  it is by the great watery waste, need have no fear of interference
  by foreign countries with its institutions; nor do we desire in any
  way to interfere with them. Nor, indeed, is there any fear of another
  civil war. The only fear we should now have is a corruption or
  suppression of the free ballot, and your utmost exertions should be to
  prevent it.

In concluding, he called for the choicest blessings upon his comrades,
saying: "To each one, God bless you and your families; God keep you and
protect you in your homes!"




INDIANAPOLIS, FEBRUARY 25, 1889.

_The Departure for Washington._


President-elect and Mrs. Harrison bade their friends and neighbors
good-by and left Indiana on February 25 for Washington. Governor
Hovey, Mayor Denny, and several thousand citizens escorted them from
their residence to the railroad station. In the escort column were
1,000 G. A. R. veterans from Geo. H. Thomas and other posts, commanded
by H. C. Allen. Conspicuous in their ranks was that distinguished
soldier-diplomat, General Lew Wallace. The members of the Indiana
Legislature saluted and joined the _cortége_ as it passed through
Pennsylvania Street.

General Harrison's carriage was completely enclosed within a hollow
square composed of 32 prominent citizens--a body-guard of honor. The
entire population of the city turned out to witness the eventful
departure, while numerous delegations were present from Danville,
Richmond, Crawfordsville, Terre Haute, and other cities. A great throng
greeted the distinguished travellers at the Union Station. From the rear
platform of the special inaugural train Governor Hovey presented the
President-elect amid tumultuous cheering.

General Harrison was greatly affected by the scene and the occasion.
Speaking with emotion he said:

  _My Good Friends and Neighbors_--I cannot trust myself to put in
  words what I feel at this time. Every kind thought that is in your
  minds and every good wish that is in your hearts for me finds its
  responsive wish and thought in my mind and heart for each of you. I
  love this city. It has been my own cherished home. Twice before I have
  left it to discharge public duties and returned to it with gladness,
  as I hope to do again. It is a city on whose streets the pompous
  displays of wealth are not seen. It is full of pleasant homes, and in
  these homes there is an unusual store of contentment. The memory of
  your favor and kindness will abide with me, and my strong desire to
  hold your respect and confidence will strengthen me in the discharge
  of my new and responsible duties. Let me say farewell to all my
  Indiana friends. For the public honors that have come to me I am their
  grateful debtor. They have made the debt so large that I can never
  discharge it. There is a great sense of loneliness in the discharge of
  high public duties. The moment of decision is one of isolation. But
  there is One whose help comes even into the quiet chamber of judgment,
  and to His wise and unfailing guidance will I look for direction and
  safety. My family unite with me in grateful thanks for this cordial
  good-by, and with me wish that these years of separation may be full
  of peace and happiness for each of you. [Great cheering.]




KNIGHTSTOWN, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 25.


As the inaugural train sped along it was greeted at every station by
thousands of cheering spectators. The first stop was at Knightstown,
where the Soldiers' Orphans' Home is located. In response to their calls
General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--I thank you for this cordial gathering and
  demonstration. I can detain the train but a moment, and I only stopped
  at the request of the Superintendent of the Soldiers' Orphans' Home,
  so that the children might have an opportunity to see me and that I
  might wish them the bright and prosperous future which the sacrifices
  of their fathers won for them. I bid you farewell.




RICHMOND, INDIANA, FEBRUARY 25.


The city of Richmond was reached at 5 o'clock in the afternoon, where
several thousand people greeted the travellers. General Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--I have so long had my home among you that I cannot
  but feel a sense of regret in leaving the soil of Indiana. I go with
  a deep sense of inadequacy, but I am sure you will be patient with my
  mistakes, and that you will all give me your help as citizens [cheers
  and cries of "We will!"] in my efforts to promote the best interests
  of our people and the honor of the Nation we love. I thank you for
  this cordial greeting. [Cheers.]




COLUMBUS, OHIO, FEBRUARY 25.


At Piqua the President-elect and his party were welcomed by Ohio's chief
executive, Gov. J. B. Foraker, and his wife; and, notwithstanding the
hour, some 20,000 people greeted their arrival at Columbus. The roar of
cannon rendered speaking difficult. Governor Foraker presented General
Harrison, who here made his last public speech before being inaugurated
as President. He said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I thank you for the wonderful demonstration
  of this evening. In these evidences of the good will of my friends
  I receive a new stimulus as I enter upon the duties of the great
  office to which I have been chosen. I beg to thank you again for your
  interest. [Great cheering.]




WASHINGTON, D. C., MARCH 4, 1889.


General Harrison and his family, accompanied by Hon. James N. Huston,
Hon. W. H. H. Miller, Mr. E. W. Halford, Mr. E. F. Tibbott and family,
Miss Sanger, and the representatives of the press, arrived in Washington
on the evening of February 26. The President-elect was met by Col. A.
T. Britton, Geo. B. Williams, Gen. H. V. Boynton, J. K. McCammon, Gen.
Daniel Macauley, and other members of the Inaugural Committee, and
escorted to the Arlington Hotel.

The inaugural celebration was conducted by several hundred residents
of Washington, acting through committees. The Executive Committee,
having supervising charge of all matters pertaining to the celebration,
comprised the following prominent Washingtonians: Alex. T. Britton,
Chairman; Myron M. Parker, Vice-Chairman; Brainerd H. Warner, Treasurer;
Henry L. Swords, Secretary; Elmon A. Adams, Joseph K. McCammon, James
E. Bell, James G. Berret, Robert Boyd, Henry V. Boynton, Almon M.
Clapp, A. H. S. Davis, Frederick Douglass, John Joy Edson, Lawrence
Gardner, George Gibson, Charles C. Glover, Stilson Hutchins, E. Kurtz
Johnson, George E. Lemon, John McElroy, Geo. A. McIlhenny, Crosby S.
Noyes, Albert Ordway, Charles B. Purvis, Melancthon L. Ruth, Thomas
Somerville, Orren G. Staples, John W. Thompson, Henry A. Willard, George
B. Williams, Louis D. Wine, Simon Wolf, Levi P. Wright, and Hallett
Kilbourn. General James Beaver, Governor of Pennsylvania, was Chief
Marshal of the day, and with a brilliant staff led the great column
in its march to and from the Capitol. The veterans of the Seventieth
Indiana Regiment were accorded the post of honor on the route to
the Capitol, and on conclusion of the ceremonies escorted their old
commander to the White House. Chief-Justice Fuller administered the oath
of office.

President Harrison delivered his inaugural address from the terrace of
the Capitol in the presence of a vast concourse and during a rainfall.


THE INAUGURAL ADDRESS.

  There is no constitutional or legal requirement that the President
  shall take the oath of office in the presence of the people. But
  there is so manifest an appropriateness in the public induction to
  office of the chief executive officer of the Nation that from the
  beginning of the Government the people, to whose service the official
  oath consecrates the officer, have been called to witness the solemn
  ceremonial. The oath taken in the presence of the people becomes a
  mutual covenant; the officer covenants to serve the whole body of the
  people by a faithful execution of the laws, so that they may be the
  unfailing defence and security of those who respect and observe them,
  and that neither wealth and station nor the power of combinations
  shall be able to evade their just penalties or to wrest them from a
  beneficent public purpose to serve the ends of cruelty or selfishness.
  My promise is spoken; yours unspoken, but not the less real and
  solemn. The people of every State have here their representatives.
  Surely I do not misinterpret the spirit of the occasion when I assume
  that the whole body of the people covenant with me and with each other
  to-day to support and defend the Constitution and the Union of the
  States, to yield willing obedience to all the laws and each to every
  other citizen his equal civil and political rights. Entering thus
  solemnly in covenant with each other, we may reverently invoke and
  confidently expect the favor and help of Almighty God, that He will
  give to me wisdom, strength, and fidelity, and to our people a spirit
  of fraternity and a love of righteousness and peace.

  This occasion derives peculiar interest from the fact that the
  presidential term which begins this day is the twenty-sixth under our
  Constitution. The first inauguration of President Washington took
  place in New York, where Congress was then sitting, on April 30, 1789,
  having been deferred by reason of delays attending the organization
  of the Congress and the canvass of the electoral vote. Our people
  have already worthily observed the centennials of the Declaration of
  Independence, of the battle of Yorktown, and of the adoption of the
  Constitution, and will shortly celebrate in New York the institution
  of the second great department of our constitutional scheme of
  government. When the centennial of the institution of the judicial
  department by the organization of the Supreme Court shall have been
  suitably observed, as I trust it will be, our Nation will have fully
  entered its second century.

  I will not attempt to note the marvellous and, in great part, happy
  contrasts between our country as it steps over the threshold into its
  second century of organized existence under the Constitution, and that
  weak but wisely ordered young Nation that looked undauntedly down the
  first century, when all its years stretched out before it.

  Our people will not fail at this time to recall the incidents which
  accompanied the institution of government under the Constitution,
  or to find inspiration and guidance in the teachings and example of
  Washington and his great associates, and hope and courage in the
  contrast which thirty-eight populous and prosperous States offer to
  the thirteen States, weak in everything except courage and the love of
  liberty, that then fringed our Atlantic seaboard.

  The Territory of Dakota has now a population greater than any of
  the original States--except Virginia--and greater than the aggregate
  of five of the smaller States in 1790. The centre of population when
  our national capital was located was east of Baltimore, and it was
  argued by many well-informed persons that it would move eastward
  rather than westward. Yet in 1880 it was found to be near Cincinnati,
  and the new census, about to be taken, will show another stride to
  the westward. That which was the body has come to be only the rich
  fringe of the nation's robe. But our growth has not been limited to
  territory, population, and aggregate wealth, marvellous as it has
  been in each of those directions. The masses of our people are better
  fed, clothed, and housed than their fathers were. The facilities
  for popular education have been vastly enlarged and more generally
  diffused. The virtues of courage and patriotism have given recent
  proof of their continued presence and increasing power in the hearts
  and over the lives of our people. The influences of religion have been
  multiplied and strengthened. The sweet offices of charity have greatly
  increased. The virtue of temperance is held in higher estimation. We
  have not attained an ideal condition. Not all of our people are happy
  and prosperous; not all of them are virtuous and law-abiding. But,
  on the whole, the opportunities offered to the individual to secure
  the comforts of life are better than are found elsewhere, and largely
  better than they were here 100 years ago.

  The surrender of a large measure of sovereignty to the general
  Government, effected by the adoption of the Constitution, was not
  accomplished until the suggestions of reason were strongly re-enforced
  by the more imperative voice of experience. The divergent interests
  of peace speedily demanded a "more perfect union." The merchant, the
  ship-master, and the manufacturer discovered and disclosed to our
  statesmen and to the people that commercial emancipation must be
  added to the political freedom which had been so bravely won. The
  commercial policy of the mother country had not relaxed any of its
  hard and oppressive features. To hold in check the development of
  our commercial marine, to prevent or retard the establishment and
  growth of manufactures in the States, and so to secure the American
  market for their shops and the carrying trade for their ships, was the
  policy of European statesmen, and was pursued with the most selfish
  vigor. Petitions poured in upon Congress urging the imposition of
  discriminating duties that should encourage the production of needed
  things at home. The patriotism of the people, which no longer found a
  field of exercise in war, was energetically directed to the duty of
  equipping the young republic for the defence of its independence by
  making its people self-dependent. Societies for the promotion of home
  manufactures and for encouraging the use of domestics in the dress of
  the people were organized in many of the States. The revival at the
  end of the century of the same patriotic interest in the preservation
  and development of domestic industries and the defence of our working
  people against injurious foreign competition is an incident worthy of
  attention.

  It is not a departure, but a return, that we have witnessed. The
  protective policy had then its opponents. The argument was made, as
  now, that its benefits inured to particular classes or sections. If
  the question became in any sense, or at any time, sectional, it was
  only because slavery existed in some of the States. But for this there
  was no reason why the cotton-producing States should not have led
  or walked abreast with the New England States in the production of
  cotton fabrics. There was this reason only why the States that divide
  with Pennsylvania the mineral treasures of the great southeastern
  and central mountain ranges should have been so tardy in bringing to
  the smelting furnace and the mill the coal and iron from their near
  opposing hillsides. Mill-fires were lighted at the funeral pile of
  slavery. The emancipation proclamation was heard in the depths of the
  earth as well as in the sky--men were made free and material things
  became our better servants.

  The sectional element has happily been eliminated from the tariff
  discussion. We have no longer States that are necessarily only
  planting States. None are excluded from achieving that diversification
  of pursuit among the people which brings wealth and contentment.
  The cotton plantation will not be less valuable when the product is
  spun in the country town by operatives whose necessities call for
  diversified crops and create a home demand for garden and agricultural
  products. Every new mine, furnace, and factory is an extension of the
  productive capacity of the State more real and valuable than added
  territory.

  Shall the prejudices and paralysis of slavery continue to hang
  upon the skirts of progress? How long will those who rejoice that
  slavery no longer exists cherish or tolerate the incapacities it puts
  upon their communities? I look hopefully to the continuance of our
  protective system and to the consequent development of manufacturing
  and mining enterprises in the States hitherto wholly given to
  agriculture as a potent influence in the perfect unification of our
  people. The men who have invested their capital in these enterprises,
  the farmers who have felt the benefit of their neighborhood, and the
  men who work in shop or field will not fail to find and to defend
  a community of interest. Is it not quite possible that the farmers
  and the promoters of the great mining and manufacturing enterprises
  which have recently been established in the South may yet find that
  the free ballot of the workingman, without distinction of race, is
  needed for their defence as well as for his own? I do not doubt that
  if these men in the South who now accept the tariff views of Clay and
  the constitutional expositions of Webster would courageously avow and
  defend their real convictions they would not find it difficult, by
  friendly instruction and co-operation, to make the black man their
  efficient and safe ally, not only in establishing correct principles
  in our national Administration, but in preserving for their local
  communities the benefits of social order and economical and honest
  government. At least until the good offices of kindness and education
  have been fairly tried the contrary conclusion cannot be plausibly
  urged.

  I have altogether rejected the suggestion of a special executive
  policy for any section of our country. It is the duty of the Executive
  to administer and enforce in the methods and by the instrumentalities
  pointed out and provided by the Constitution all the laws enacted by
  Congress. These laws are general, and their administration should be
  uniform and equal. As a citizen may not elect what laws he will obey,
  neither may the Executive elect which he will enforce. The duty to
  obey and execute embraces the Constitution in its entirety and the
  whole code of laws enacted under it. The evil example of permitting
  individuals, corporations, or communities to nullify the laws because
  they cross some selfish or local interests or prejudices is full of
  danger, not only to the Nation at large, but much more to those who
  use this pernicious expedient to escape their just obligations or to
  obtain an unjust advantage over others. They will presently themselves
  be compelled to appeal to the law for protection, and those who would
  use the law as a defence must not deny that use of it to others.

  If our great corporations would more scrupulously observe their
  legal obligations and duties they would have less cause to complain of
  the unlawful limitations of their rights or of violent interference
  with their operations. The community that by concert, open or secret,
  among its citizens denies to a portion of its members their plain
  rights under the law has severed the only safe bond of social order
  and prosperity. The evil works, from a bad centre, both ways. It
  demoralizes those who practise it, and destroys the faith of those who
  suffer by it in the efficiency of the law as a safe protector. The man
  in whose breast that faith has been darkened is naturally the subject
  of dangerous and uncanny suggestions. Those who use unlawful methods,
  if moved by no higher motive than the selfishness that prompts them,
  may well stop and inquire what is to be the end of this. An unlawful
  expedient cannot become a permanent condition of government. If the
  educated and influential classes in a community either practise or
  connive at the systematic violation of laws that seem to them to
  cross their convenience, what can they expect when the lesson that
  convenience or a supposed class interest is a sufficient cause for
  lawlessness has been well learned by the ignorant classes? A community
  where law is the rule of conduct, and where courts, not mobs, execute
  its penalties, is the only attractive field for business investments
  and honest labor.

  Our naturalization laws should be so amended as to make the inquiry
  into the character and good disposition of persons applying for
  citizenship more careful and searching. Our existing laws have been in
  their administration an unimpressive and often an unintelligible form.
  We accept the man as a citizen without any knowledge of his fitness,
  and he assumes the duties of citizenship without any knowledge as to
  what they are. The privileges of American citizenship are so great and
  its duties so grave that we may well insist upon a good knowledge of
  every person applying for citizenship and a good knowledge by him of
  our institutions. We should not cease to be hospitable to immigration,
  but we should cease to be careless as to the character of it. There
  are men of all races, even the best, whose coming is necessarily a
  burden upon our public revenues or a threat to social order. These
  should be identified and excluded.

  We have happily maintained a policy of avoiding all interference
  with European affairs. We have been only interested spectators of
  their contentions in diplomacy and in war, ready to use our friendly
  offices to promote peace, but never obtruding our advice and never
  attempting unfairly to coin the distresses of other powers into
  commercial advantage to ourselves. We have a just right to expect that
  our European policy will be the American policy of European courts.

  It is so manifestly incompatible with those precautions for our
  peace and safety, which all the great powers habitually observe and
  enforce in matters affecting them, that a shorter water-way between
  our eastern and western seaboards should be dominated by any European
  Government, that we may confidently expect that such a purpose will
  not be entertained by any friendly power. We shall in the future, as
  in the past, use every endeavor to maintain and enlarge our friendly
  relations with all the great powers, but they will not expect us
  to look kindly upon any project that would leave us subject to the
  dangers of a hostile observation or environment.

  We have not sought to dominate or to absorb any of our weaker
  neighbors, but rather to aid and encourage them to establish free and
  stable governments, resting upon the consent of their own people. We
  have a clear right to expect, therefore, that no European Government
  will seek to establish colonial dependencies upon the territory of
  these independent American States. That which a sense of justice
  restrains us from seeking they may be reasonably expected willingly to
  forego.

  It must not be assumed, however, that our interests are so
  exclusively American that our entire inattention to any events that
  may transpire elsewhere can be taken for granted. Our citizens
  domiciled for purposes of trade in all countries and in many of the
  islands of the sea demand and will have our adequate care in their
  personal and commercial rights. The necessities of our navy require
  convenient coaling stations and dock and harbor privileges. These and
  other trading privileges we will feel free to obtain only by means
  that do not in any degree partake of coercion, however feeble the
  Government from which we ask such concessions. But having fairly
  obtained them by methods and for purposes entirely consistent with the
  most friendly disposition toward all other powers, our consent will be
  necessary to any modification or impairment of the concession.

  We shall neither fail to respect the flag of any friendly nation
  or the just rights of its citizens, nor to exact the like treatment
  for our own. Calmness, justice, and consideration should characterize
  our diplomacy. The offices of an intelligent diplomacy or of friendly
  arbitration, in proper cases, should be adequate to the peaceful
  adjustment of all international difficulties. By such methods we will
  make our contribution to the world's peace, which no nation values
  more highly, and avoid the opprobrium which must fall upon the nation
  that ruthlessly breaks it.

  The duty devolved by law upon the President to nominate and, by
  and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint all public
  officers whose appointment is not otherwise provided for in the
  Constitution or by act of Congress has become very burdensome, and its
  wise and efficient discharge full of difficulty. The civil list is so
  large that a personal knowledge of any large number of the applicants
  is impossible. The President must rely upon the representations of
  others, and these are often made inconsiderately and without any just
  sense of responsibility.

  I have a right, I think, to insist that those who volunteer or are
  invited to give advice as to appointments shall exercise consideration
  and fidelity. A high sense of duty and an ambition to improve the
  service should characterize all public officers. There are many ways
  in which the convenience and comfort of those who have business with
  our public officers may be promoted by a thoughtful and obliging
  officer, and I shall expect those whom I may appoint to justify their
  selection by a conspicuous efficiency in the discharge of their
  duties. Honorable party service will certainly not be esteemed by
  me a disqualification for public office; but it will in no case be
  allowed to serve as a shield for official negligence, incompetency, or
  delinquency. It is entirely creditable to seek public office by proper
  methods and with proper motives, and all applications will be treated
  with consideration; but I shall need, and the heads of departments
  will need, time for inquiry and deliberation. Persistent importunity
  will not, therefore, be the best support of an application for office.

  Heads of departments, bureaus, and all other public officers having
  any duty connected therewith, will be expected to enforce the Civil
  Service law fully and without evasion. Beyond this obvious duty
  I hope to do something more to advance the reform of the civil
  service. The ideal, or even my own ideal, I shall probably not
  attain. Retrospect will be a safer basis of judgment than promises.
  We shall not, however, I am sure, be able to put our civil service
  upon a non-partisan basis until we have secured an incumbency that
  fair minded men of the opposition will approve for impartiality and
  integrity. As the number of such in the civil list is increased
  removals from office will diminish.

  While a treasury surplus is not the greatest evil, it is a serious
  evil. Our revenue should be ample to meet the ordinary annual demands
  upon our treasury, with a sufficient margin for those extraordinary
  but scarcely less imperative demands which arise now and then.
  Expenditure should always be made with economy, and only upon
  public necessity. Wastefulness, profligacy, or favoritism in public
  expenditures is criminal; but there is nothing in the condition of
  our country or of our people to suggest that anything presently
  necessary to the public prosperity, security, or honor should be
  unduly postponed. It will be the duty of Congress wisely to forecast
  and estimate these extraordinary demands, and, having added them to
  our ordinary expenditures, to so adjust our revenue laws that no
  considerable annual surplus will remain. We will fortunately be able
  to apply to the redemption of the public debt any small and unforeseen
  excess of revenue. This is better than to reduce our income below
  our necessary expenditures with the resulting choice between another
  change of our revenue laws and an increase of the public debt. It is
  quite possible, I am sure, to effect the necessary reduction in our
  revenues without breaking down our protective tariff or seriously
  injuring any domestic industry.

  The construction of a sufficient number of modern war ships and of
  their necessary armament should progress as rapidly as is consistent
  with care and perfection in plans and workmanship. The spirit,
  courage, and skill of our naval officers and seamen have many times
  in our history given to weak ships and inefficient guns a rating
  greatly beyond that of the naval list. That they will again do so
  upon occasion I do not doubt; but they ought not, by premeditation or
  neglect, to be left to the risks and exigencies of an unequal combat.

  We should encourage the establishment of American steamship lines.
  The exchanges of commerce demand stated, reliable, and rapid means of
  communication, and until these are provided the development of our
  trade with the States lying south of us is impossible.

  Our pension law should give more adequate and discriminating relief
  to the Union soldiers and sailors and to their widows and orphans.
  Such occasions as this should remind us that we owe everything to
  their valor and sacrifice.

  It is a subject of congratulation that there is a near prospect of
  the admission into the Union of the Dakotas and Montana and Washington
  Territories. This act of justice has been unreasonably delayed in the
  case of some of them. The people who have settled those Territories
  are intelligent, enterprising, and patriotic, and the accession
  of these new States will add strength to the Nation. It is due to
  the settlers in the Territories who have availed themselves of the
  invitations of our land laws to make homes upon the public domain that
  their titles should be speedily adjusted and their honest entries
  confirmed by patent.

  It is very gratifying to observe the general interest now being
  manifested in the reform of our election laws. Those who have been for
  years calling attention to the pressing necessity of throwing about
  the ballot-box and about the elector further safeguards, in order
  that our elections might not only be free and pure, but might clearly
  appear to be so, will welcome the accession of any who did not so soon
  discover the need of reform. The national Congress has not as yet
  taken control of elections in that case over which the Constitution
  gives it jurisdiction, but has accepted and adopted the election laws
  of the several States, provided penalties for their violation and a
  method of supervision. Only the inefficiency of the State laws or an
  unfair partisan administration of them could suggest a departure from
  this policy. It was clearly, however, in the contemplation of the
  framers of the Constitution that such an exigency might arise, and
  provision was wisely made for it. No power vested in Congress or in
  the Executive to secure or perpetuate it should remain unused upon
  occasion.

  The people of all the Congressional districts have an equal
  interest that the election in each shall truly express the views and
  wishes of a majority of the qualified electors residing within it.
  The results of such elections are not local, and the insistence of
  electors residing in other districts that they shall be pure and free
  does not savor at all of impertinence. If in any of the States the
  public security is thought to be threatened by ignorance among the
  electors, the obvious remedy is education. The sympathy and help of
  our people will not be withheld from any community struggling with
  special embarrassments or difficulties connected with the suffrage,
  if the remedies proposed proceed upon lawful lines and are promoted
  by just and honorable methods. How shall those who practise election
  frauds recover that respect for the sanctity of the ballot which is
  the first condition and obligation of good citizenship? The man who
  has come to regard the ballot-box as a juggler's hat has renounced his
  allegiance.

  Let us exalt patriotism and moderate our party contentions. Let
  those who would die for the flag on the field of battle give a better
  proof of their patriotism and a higher glory to their country by
  promoting fraternity and justice. A party success that is achieved by
  unfair methods or by practices that partake of revolution is hurtful
  and evanescent, even from a party standpoint. We should hold our
  differing opinions in mutual respect, and, having submitted them to
  the arbitrament of the ballot, should accept an adverse judgment with
  the same respect that we would have demanded of our opponents if the
  decision had been in our favor.

  No other people have a government more worthy of their respect and
  love, or a land so magnificent in extent, so pleasant to look upon,
  and so full of generous suggestion to enterprise and labor. God has
  placed upon our head a diadem, and has laid at our feet power and
  wealth beyond definition or calculation. But we must not forget that
  we take these gifts upon the condition that justice and mercy shall
  hold the reins of power, and that the upward avenues of hope shall be
  free to all the people.

  I do not mistrust the future. Dangers have been in frequent ambush
  along our path, but we have uncovered and vanquished them all.
  Passion has swept some of our communities, but only to give us a new
  demonstration that the great body of our people are stable, patriotic,
  and law-abiding. No political party can long pursue advantage at the
  expense of public honor or by rude and indecent methods, without
  protest and fatal disaffection in its own body. The peaceful agencies
  of commerce are more fully revealing the necessary unity of all our
  communities, and the increasing intercourse of our people is promoting
  mutual respect. We shall find unalloyed pleasure in the revelation
  which our next census will make of the swift development of the great
  resources of some of the States. Each State will bring its generous
  contribution to the great aggregate of the Nation's increase. And when
  the harvest from the fields, the cattle from the hills, and the ores
  of the earth shall have been weighed, counted, and valued, we will
  turn from them all to crown with the highest honor the State that has
  most promoted education, virtue, justice, and patriotism among the
  people.




NEW YORK CITY, APRIL 30, 1889.

_The Nation's Centenary._


The celebration, at the city of New York, of the one hundredth
anniversary of the inauguration of George Washington as first President
of the United States was more than national in its scope and influence.
The people of the entire continent manifested a gratifying interest
in it, and no event in our history has been commemorated with greater
success. The occasion called together more than two million people
within the gateways of the great metropolis, many of them our most
distinguished and representative citizens. The celebration was conducted
under the auspices of one hundred prominent citizens, organized as a
general committee, of which the Hon. Hamilton Fish was President; Mayor
Hugh J. Grant, Chairman; Hon. Elbridge T. Gerry, Chairman Executive
Committee; and Clarence W. Bowen, Secretary.

Early on the morning of April 29 the President, accompanied by Mrs.
Harrison, Mrs. J. R. McKee, Mr. and Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, the
members of the Cabinet, Chief Justice and Mrs. Fuller, Justice and Mrs.
Field, Justice Blatchford, Justice Strong, Major-General Schofield, Mr.
Walker Blaine and Miss Blaine, Col. Thos. F. Barr, Lieut. T. B. M. Mason
and Mrs. Mason, left Washington by special train tendered by President
Geo. R. Roberts and Vice-President Frank Thomson, of the Pennsylvania
Company. The distinguished guests were escorted by the following members
of the Centennial Committee designated for this honorable duty: John A.
King, Chairman; John Jay, Edward Cooper, Wm. H. Wickham, Wm. R. Grace,
Frederick J. DePeyster, Wm. H. Robertson, Cornelius Vanderbilt, Wm. M.
Evarts, Frank Hiscock, Seth Low, Orlando B. Potter, Clifford S. Sims,
Jas. Duane Livingston, and Frank S. Witherbee.

At Trenton the party was met by the New Jersey Centennial Committee,
consisting of Governor Green, General Sewell, Rev. Dr. Hamill, Colonel
Stockton, General Grubb, Colonel Donnelly, Captain Skirm, Senator
Cramner, Senator Cattell, Colonel Chambers, and others.

Arrived at Elizabeth the President breakfasted with Governor Green
and then held a reception, conducted by Col. Rob't S. Green, assisted
by Col. Suydam, Chas. G. Parkhurst, and John L. Boggs. Following the
route taken by Washington, President Harrison and his party embarked
at Elizabethport on board the U. S. S. _Despatch_, and, escorted by a
magnificent fleet of war ships, merchant marine, and craft of all kinds,
proceeded up the Kills to the bay amid the roar of cannon from the
several forts and the men-of-war.

At the gangway of the _Despatch_ the President was received by Jackson
S. Schultz and the following gentlemen, comprising the Committee on
Navy: John S. Barnes, George G. Haven, D. Willis James, Frederick R.
Coudert, Capt. Henry Erben, Ogden Goelet, John Jay Pierrepont, Loyall
Farragut, Alfred C. Cheney, Buchanan Winthrop, and S. Nicholson Kane.
Other distinguished guests on the _Despatch_ were Gov. David B. Hill,
Gen. William T. Sherman, Admiral David D. Porter, Commodore Ramsey,
and Jas. M. Varnum. Several hundred thousand patriotic people greeted
the _Despatch_ as she proudly entered the harbor. The scene was a most
memorable one.

Following the example of Washington, President Harrison was rowed ashore
in a barge, landing at Pier 16, where he was met by the venerable
Hamilton Fish, who welcomed him to New York. Proceeding to the Equitable
Building, the President was tendered a reception in the rooms of
the Lawyers' Club, followed by a banquet under the auspices of the
Committee on States, consisting of the following distinguished citizens:
William G. Hamilton, Chairman; James C. Carter, John Schuyler, J. T.
Van Rensselaer, James W. Husted, Theo. Roosevelt, Jacob A. Cantor, E.
Ellery Anderson, Floyd Clarkson, Henry W. LeRoy, John B. Pine, Samuel
Borrowe, and Jas. M. Montgomery. Among the guests--other than the
members of the Cabinet and the other prominent gentlemen who accompanied
the President on the _Despatch_--were ex-President R. B. Hayes and the
Governors of thirty-five States.

At night the President and his Cabinet attended the grand centennial
ball at the Metropolitan Opera House, at which 6,000 guests were
present. This brilliant entertainment, rendered memorable by the
presence of so many distinguished people, was given under the auspices
of a committee composed of the following society leaders: Stuyvesant
Fish, Chairman; William Waldorf Astor, William K. Vanderbilt, William
Jay, Egerton L. Winthrop, Robert Goelet, Wm. B. Beekman, Stephen H.
Olin, Wm. E. D. Stokes, and Gouverneur Morris.

The morning of the 30th--Centennial Day--the President, members of his
Cabinet, with ex-Presidents Cleveland and Hayes, Governor Hill, and
many other noted guests, attended thanksgiving services at St. Paul's
Church. The President and his family occupied the Washington pew. The
exercises were conducted by the Rt. Rev. Henry C. Potter, Bishop of New
York. The literary exercises were held on the steps of the sub-Treasury,
where General Washington took his oath of office a hundred years before.
Countless thousands surrounded the speaker's stand and congregated in
the vicinity. Elbridge T. Gerry presided and introduced Rev. Richard
S. Storrs, who delivered the invocation. Secretary Bowen read a poem
entitled "The Vow of Washington," composed for the occasion by the
venerable John Greenleaf Whittier. Hon. Chauncey M. Depew then delivered
the Centennial oration. On conclusion, Chairman Gerry introduced
President Harrison, who was greeted with a grand outburst as he advanced
to the front. Amid repeated interruptions with cheers he spoke as
follows:

  _Mr. Chairman, my Countrymen_--Official duty of a very exacting
  character has made it quite impossible that I should deliver an
  address on this occasion. Foreseeing this, I early notified your
  committee that the programme must not contain any address by me. The
  selection of Mr. Depew as the orator of this occasion makes further
  speech not only difficult, but superfluous. He has met the demand of
  this great occasion on its own high level. He has brought before us
  the incidents and the lessons of the first inauguration of Washington.
  We seem to have been a part of that admiring and almost adoring throng
  that filled these streets one hundred years ago.

  We have come into the serious, but always inspiring, presence
  of Washington. He was the incarnation of duty, and he teaches us
  to-day this great lesson: That those who would associate their
  names with events that shall outlive a century can only do so by
  high consecration to duty. Self-seeking has no public observance or
  anniversary. The captain who gives to the sea his cargo of goods,
  that he may give safety and deliverance to his imperilled fellow-men,
  has fame; he who lands the cargo has only wages. Washington seemed to
  come to the discharge of the duties of his high office impressed with
  a great sense of his unfamiliarity with these new calls thrust upon
  him, modestly doubtful of his own ability, but trusting implicitly in
  the sustaining helpfulness and grace of that God who rules the world,
  presides in the councils of nations, and is able to supply every human
  defect. We have made marvellous progress in material things since
  then, but the stately and enduring shaft that we have erected at the
  national capital at Washington symbolizes the fact that he is still
  the First American Citizen. [Cheers.]


_The Great Military Parade and Banquet._

On conclusion of the ceremonies at the sub-Treasury the President and
other honored guests of the day reviewed the grand military parade
from a stand in Madison Square. Along the line of march, especially on
Broadway and Fifth Avenue, for several miles the gorgeous pageant moved
between two living walls. Never were so many people congregated on this
continent. The glittering column, commanded by General Schofield, moved
with continuous precision, and was five hours and twenty-five minutes
in passing the reviewing stand. The President remained at his post,
saluting the last company. The troops of the various States were led by
their Governors.

This monster military demonstration and the great industrial parade of
the day following were conducted under the management of a committee
comprising the following well-known gentlemen: S. Van Rensselaer Cruger,
Chairman; John Cochrane, Locke W. Winchester, J. Hampden Robb, Frederick
Gallatin, Frederick D. Tappen, and John C. Tomlinson.

The President's visit concluded with his participation in the greatest
banquet known to modern times, held at the Metropolitan Opera House.
The lavish decorations, the magnitude and occasion of the entertainment
have rendered it historical. Eight hundred guests were seated at
the tables, while the surrounding boxes and stalls were overflowing
with distinguished ladies eagerly partaking of the feast of reason.
Mayor Grant presided, and introduced Governor Hill, who welcomed the
guests. Ex-President Cleveland responded to the toast "Our People;"
Gov. Fitzhugh Lee, of Virginia, spoke to "The States;" Chief-Justice
Fuller responded to "The Federal Constitution;" Hon. John W. Daniel
spoke to "The Senate;" ex-President Hayes to "The Presidency." Among
other prominent guests were Vice-President Morton, General Sherman,
Lieutenant-Governor Jones, of New York, Judge Charles Andrews, Hon.
Hannibal Hamlin, Mayor Chapin, of Brooklyn, Governor Foraker, of Ohio,
Abram S. Hewitt, Cornelius N. Bliss, Fred'k S. Tallmadge, Samuel D.
Babcock, Chauncey M. Depew, Erastus Wiman, Charles W. Dayton, Josiah
M. Fisk, William Henry Smith, Thomas S. Moore, Henry Clews, Austin
Corbin, Philip L. Livingston, Brayton Ives, Darius O. Mills, Richard
T. Wilson, William L. Strong, Henry B. Hyde, James M. Brown, Louis
Fitzgerald, Allan Campbell, John Sloane, James D. Smith, Edward V. Loew,
Eugene Kelly, Walter Stanton, John F. Plummer, J. Edward Simmons, John
Jay Knox, De Lancey Nicoll, Henry G. Marquand, Gordon L. Ford, Daniel
Huntington, F. Hopkinson Smith, William E. Dodge, Chas. Parsons, A. W.
Drake, Oliver H. Perry, Frank D. Millet, H. H. Boyesen, Charles Henry
Hart, Rutherford Stuyvesant, John L. Cadwalader, Lispenard Stewart,
Chas. H. Russell, Jr., and Richard W. Gilder.

After the Chief-Justice's address President Harrison was introduced and
received with a storm of applause. He spoke to the toast "The United
States of America" as follows:

  _Mr. President and Fellow-citizens_--I should be unjust to myself,
  and, what is more serious, I should be unjust to you, if I did not
  at this first and last opportunity express to you the deep sense of
  obligation and thankfulness which I feel for these many personal and
  official courtesies which have been extended to me since I came to
  take part in this celebration. The official representatives of the
  State of New York and of this great city have attended me with the
  most courteous kindness, omitting no attention that could make my
  stay among you pleasant and gratifying. From you and at the hands of
  those who have thronged the streets of the city to-day I have received
  the most cordial expressions of good will. I would not, however,
  have you understand that these loud acclaims have been in any sense
  appropriated as a personal tribute to myself. I have realized that
  there was that in this occasion and all these interesting incidents
  which have made it so profoundly impressive to my mind which was above
  and greater than any living man. I have realized that the tribute of
  cordial interest which you have manifested was rendered to that great
  office which, by the favor of a greater people, I now exercise, rather
  than to me.

  The occasion and all of its incidents will be memorable not only
  in the history of your own city, but in the history of our country.
  New York did not succeed in retaining the seat of national government
  here, although she made liberal provision for the assembling of the
  first Congress in the expectation that the Congress might find its
  permanent home here. But though you lost that which you coveted, I
  think the representatives here of all the States will agree that it
  was fortunate that the first inauguration of Washington took place in
  the State and the city of New York.

  For where in our country could the centennial of the event be so
  worthily celebrated as here? What seaboard offered so magnificent a
  bay on which to display our merchant and naval marine? What city
  offered thoroughfares so magnificent, or a people so great, so
  generous, as New York has poured out to-day to celebrate that event?

  I have received at the hands of the committee who have been charged
  with the details--onerous, exacting, and too often unthankful--of this
  demonstration evidence of their confidence in my physical endurance.
  [Laughter.]

  I must also acknowledge still one other obligation. The committee
  having in charge the exercises of this event have also given me
  another evidence of their confidence, which has been accompanied with
  some embarrassment. As I have noticed the progress of this banquet, it
  seemed to me that each of the speakers had been made acquainted with
  his theme before he took his seat at the banquet, and that I alone
  was left to make acquaintance with my theme when I sat down to the
  table. I prefer to substitute for the official title which is upon the
  programme the familiar and fireside expression, "Our Country."

  I congratulate you to-day, as one of the instructive and interesting
  features of this occasion, that these great thoroughfares dedicated
  to trade have closed their doors and covered up the insignias of
  commerce; that your great exchanges have closed and your citizens
  given themselves up to the observance of the celebration in which we
  are participating.

  I believe that patriotism has been intensified in many hearts by
  what we have witnessed to-day. I believe that patriotism has been
  placed in a higher and holier fane in many hearts. The bunting with
  which you have covered your walls, these patriotic inscriptions,
  must go down and the wage and trade be resumed again. Here may I not
  ask you to carry those inscriptions that now hang on the walls into
  your homes, into the schools of your city, into all of your great
  institutions where children are gathered, and teach them that the eye
  of the young and the old should look upon that flag as one of the
  familiar glories of every American? Have we not learned that no stocks
  and bonds, nor land, is our country? It is a spiritual thought that
  is in our minds--it is the flag and what it stands for; it is the
  fireside and the home; it is the thoughts that are in our hearts, born
  of the inspiration which comes with the story of the flag, of martyrs
  to liberty. It is the graveyard into which a common country has
  gathered the unconscious deeds of those who died that the thing might
  live which we love and call our country, rather than anything that can
  be touched or seen.

  Let me add a thought due to our country's future. Perhaps never
  have we been so well equipped for war upon land as now, and we have
  never seen the time when our people were more smitten with the love of
  peace. To elevate the morals of our people; to hold up the law as that
  sacred thing which, like the ark of God of old, may not be touched
  by irreverent hands, but frowns upon any attempt to dethrone its
  supremacy; to unite our people in all that makes home comfortable, as
  well as to give our energies in the direction of material advancement,
  this service may we render. And out of this great demonstration let us
  draw lessons to inspire us to consecrate ourselves anew to this love
  and service of our country.




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 22, 1889.

_Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument._


A memorable event in the history of Indiana was the laying of the
corner-stone of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument at Indianapolis
on August 22, 1889. The Board of Commissioners for the erection of
the monument--under whose supervision the attendant exercises were
conducted--comprised: George J. Langsdale, of Greencastle, President;
Geo. W. Johnston, of Indianapolis, Secretary; T. W. Bennett, of
Richmond; S. B. Voyles, of Salem; and D. C. McCollum, of La Porte.

President Harrison and his party were honored guests on the occasion; he
was accompanied by Secretary Jeremiah M. Rusk, Attorney-General W. H.
H. Miller, Private Secretary E. W. Halford, Capt. William M. Meredith,
Marshal Daniel M. Ransdell, and General Thomas J. Morgan.

At College Corner, on the Indiana border, the President was met by Gov.
Alvin P. Hovey, Mayor Caleb S. Denny, Hon. William H. English, William
Scott, John P. Frenzel, Robert S. McKee, J. A. Wildman, Albert Gall,
Dr. Henry Jameson, and others, comprising an honorary escort committee.
Governor Hovey welcomed the President to Indiana in a brief, cordial
address, to which President Harrison responded:

  I thank the Governor for this larger welcome extended as Governor on
  the part of the people of the whole State. You have well said that the
  people of Indiana have been kind to me, and if, when my public career
  is ended, I can return to you the happy possessor of your respect and
  good-will, I shall not leave public office with regret.

Arriving at Indianapolis on the evening of the 21st, the President
was formally waited upon by the Monument Commissioners and Board of
Trade Reception Committee. General James R. Carnahan, on behalf of the
Commissioners, and George G. Tanner, President of the Board of Trade,
warmly welcomed him.

To their addresses President Harrison replied:

  _Gentlemen of the Committees and Friends_--I scarcely know how to
  convey to you my deep impressions at this cordial welcome back to
  Indianapolis. I cannot hope to do it. I have been deeply touched by
  this generous and courteous reception. It was not my expectation when
  I left Indianapolis a few months ago, under so serious a sense of my
  responsibilities, that I would return again so soon to my home. But
  this occasion was one which I could not well be absent from. It is one
  that should enlist to a degree that nothing else can do our patriotic
  interests and State pride. It is true, as General Carnahan has said,
  that I took an early interest in this movement. I felt that until this
  monument was built, until its top-stone was laid, and its voice had
  been heard by the people of this State in expressive speech, we had
  not done that for our soldier dead which we should, and that we had
  neglected those who died for us. I am glad, therefore, to be present
  and see this monument started. I reverently rejoice with you on this
  occasion, and hail the work which these commissioners have so wisely
  and magnificently begun.

Among other distinguished guests participating in the ceremonies were
Mrs. Jennie Meyerhoff, of Evansville, President of the Woman's Relief
Corps, Department of Indiana; Col. George C. Harvey, of Danville,
commanding the Sons of Veterans, Division of Indiana; Mrs. Zelda
Seguin-Wallace and Miss Laura McManis, Indianapolis; Miss Kate Hammond,
Greencastle, and Rev. H. J. Talbott.

The march to the monument was one of the most imposing demonstrations
ever witnessed in Indiana. Fifteen thousand veterans and others formed
the great column, commanded by Chief Marshal Charles A. Zollinger, of
Fort Wayne; Chief of Staff, Major Irvin Robbins; Adjutant-General, Major
Wilbur F. Hitt, assisted by a brilliant staff of 60 prominent citizens.
In addition to these officers of the day was a mounted honorary staff,
representing the thirteen Congressional districts. They were: First
District, Gil R. Stormont, Princeton; Second, Col. Elijah Cavens,
Bloomfield; Third, Capt. James B. Patton, Jeffersonville; Fourth,
Marine D. Tackett, Greensburg; Fifth, Maj. J. G. Dunbar, Greencastle;
Sixth, Maj. J. F. Wildman, Muncie; Seventh, Capt. D. W. Hamilton,
Indianapolis; Eighth, Capt. A. C. Ford, Terre Haute; Ninth, Col. R. P.
DeHart, Lafayette; Tenth, Capt. M. L. DeMotte, Valparaiso; Eleventh,
Col. C. E. Briant, Huntington; Twelfth, Capt. J. C. Peltier, Fort Wayne;
Thirteenth, Gen. Reub. Williams, Warsaw. More than 100,000 people
witnessed the pageant.

The monument is a majestic square embellished shaft of Indiana
limestone, some 250 feet high, surmounted by a heroic figure of Victory,
the pedestal resting upon a great circular stone terrace. The architects
were Bruno Schmitz, of Berlin, and Frederick Baumann, of Chicago. The
ceremony of laying the corner-stone was conducted by the following
officials of the Grand Army of the Republic: Commander of the Department
of Indiana Charles M. Travis, of Crawfordsville; Senior Vice Department
Commander P. D. Harris, of Shelbyville; Junior Vice-Commander B. B.
Campbell, of Anderson; Assistant Adjutant-General I. N. Walker, of
Indianapolis; Officers of the Day Wm. H. Armstrong, of Indianapolis, and
Lieut.-Gov. Ira J. Chase, of Danville.

Gov. Alvin P. Hovey, as presiding officer, delivered an eloquent opening
address, which was followed by the singing of the hymn "Dedication,"
written for the occasion by Charles M. Walker, of Indianapolis. The
speakers of the day were Gen. Mahlon D. Manson, of Crawfordsville, and
Gen. John Coburn, of Indianapolis. Their masterly orations were followed
by the reading of a poem, "What Shall It Teach?" written by Capt. Lee O.
Harris, of Greenfield.

When Governor Hovey introduced the Chief Executive of the Nation the
vast audience swayed with enthusiasm. In a voice low, and with a slight
tremble in it, President Harrison began his fine tribute to the men who
responded to the country's call. As he proceeded his voice rose higher
until it rang out clear as a bugle and drew from the multitude repeated
and vociferous cheers. He spoke as follows:

  _Mr. President and Fellow-citizens_--I did not expect to make any
  address on this occasion. It would have been pleasant, if I could
  have found leisure to make suitable preparation, to have accepted
  the invitation of the committee having these exercises in charge
  to deliver an oration. I would have felt it an honor to associate
  my name with an occasion so great as this. Public duties, however,
  prevented the acceptance of the invitation, and I could only promise
  to be present with you to-day. It seemed to me most appropriate that
  I should take part with my fellow-citizens of Indiana in this great
  ceremony. There have been few occasions in the history of our State
  so full of interest, so magnificent, so inspiring, as that which
  we now witness. The suggestion that a monument should be builded
  to commemorate the valor and heroism of those soldiers of Indiana
  who gave their lives for the flag attracted my interest from the
  beginning. Five years ago last January, when the people assembled in
  the opera-house yonder to unveil the statue which had been worthily
  set up to our great war Governor, I ventured to express the hope that
  near by it, as a twin expression of one great sentiment, there might
  be builded a noble shaft, not to any man, not to bear on any of its
  majestic faces the name of a man, but a monument about which the sons
  of veterans, the mothers of our dead, the widows that are yet with us,
  might gather, and, pointing to the stately shaft, say: "There is his
  monument." The hope expressed that day is realized now. [Cheers.]

  I congratulate the people of Indiana that our Legislature
  has generously met the expectations of our patriotic people. I
  congratulate the commission having this great work in charge that
  they have secured a design which will not suffer under the criticism
  of the best artists of the world. I congratulate you that a monument
  so costly as to show that we value that which it commemorates, so
  artistic as to express the sentiment which evoked it, is to stand in
  the capital of Indiana. Does any one say there is wastefulness here?
  [Cries of "No, no!"] My countrymen, $200,000 has never passed, and
  never will pass, from the treasury of Indiana that will give a better
  return than the expenditure for the erection of this monument. As I
  have witnessed these ceremonies and listened to these patriotic hymns
  I have read in the faces of the men who stand about me that lifting up
  of the soul, that kindling of patriotic fire, that has made me realize
  that on such occasions the Nation is laying deep and strong its future
  security.

  This is a monument by Indiana to Indiana soldiers. But I beg
  you to remember that they were only soldiers of Indiana until the
  enlistment oath was taken; that from that hour until they came back
  to the generous State that had sent them forth they were soldiers of
  the Union. So that it seemed to me not inappropriate that I should
  bring to you to-day the sympathy and cheer of the loyal people of
  all the States. No American citizen need avoid it or pass it with
  unsympathetic eyes, for, my countrymen, it does not commemorate a war
  of subjugation. There is not in the United States to-day a man who, if
  he realizes what has occurred since the war and has opened his soul to
  the sight of that which is to come, who will not feel that it is good
  for all our people that victory crowned the cause which this monument
  commemorates. I do seriously believe that if we can measure among the
  States the benefits resulting from the preservation of the Union, the
  rebellious States have the larger share. It destroyed an institution
  that was their destruction. It opened the way for a commercial life
  that, if they will only embrace it and face the light, means to them a
  development that shall rival the best attainments of the greatest of
  our States.

  And now let me thank you for your pleasant greeting. I have felt
  lifted up by this occasion. It seems to me that our spirits have been
  borne up to meet those of the dead and glorified, and that from this
  place we shall go to our homes more resolutely set in our purpose
  as citizens to conserve the peace and welfare of our neighborhoods,
  to hold up the dignity and honor of our free institutions, and to
  see that no harm shall come to our country, whether from internal
  dissensions or from the aggressions of a foreign foe. [Great cheering.]

A camp-fire was held at night at Tomlinson Hall, presided over by
Charles M. Travis, Commander of Indiana G. A. R., where an audience of
over 5,000 assembled. The orators of the occasion were Hon. Samuel B.
Voyles, of Salem; Judge Daniel Waugh, of Tipton; General Jasper Packard,
of New Albany; Col. I. N. Walker and Albert J. Beveridge, Indianapolis;
Hon. Benj. S. Parker, New Castle, and Hon. Wm. R. Myers, Anderson.

President Harrison's appearance was greeted by a prolonged
demonstration, the audience rising with one impulse. Commander Travis
said: "I told you I would treat you to a surprise. Here is your
President. He needs no introduction."

President Harrison's reply was:

  _Mr. Chairman, Comrades_--I think I will treat you to another
  surprise. My Indiana friends have been so much accustomed to have
  me talk on all occasions that I am sure nothing would gratify them
  more--nothing would be a greater surprise than for me to decline to
  talk to-night. I am very grateful for this expression of your interest
  and respect. That comradeship and good feeling which your cordial
  salutation has expressed to me I beg every comrade of the Grand Army
  here to-night to believe I feel for him.

  Now, I am sure, in view of the labors of yesterday and to-day,
  that you will allow me to wish you prosperous, happy, useful lives,
  honorable and peaceful deaths, and that those who survive you may
  point to this shaft, which is being reared yonder, as a worthy tribute
  of your services in defence of your country. [Cheers.]




INDIANAPOLIS, AUGUST 23, 1889.

_Reunion of the Seventieth Indiana._


The day following the ceremonies at the Soldiers' Monument President
Harrison attended the fifteenth annual reunion of his old regiment,
the Seventieth Indiana, at Tomlinson Hall. Many survivors of the One
Hundred and Second and One Hundred and Fifth Indiana, the One Hundred
and Twenty-ninth Illinois, and the Seventy-ninth Ohio regiments were
present. These regiments, with the Seventieth, constituted the First
Brigade--General Harrison's command. The gathering, therefore, was
alternately a regimental and brigade reunion.

Col. Samuel Merrill, who delivered the annual address, escorted the
President, and amid enthusiastic cheering installed him as presiding
officer of the assembly. Other prominent members of the Seventieth
present were Gen. Thomas J. Morgan, Capt. Wm. M. Meredith, Daniel M.
Ransdell, Moses G. McLain, Capt. H. M. Endsley, Capt. Wm. Mitchell,
and Capt. Chas. H. Cox. General Harrison was unanimously re-elected
President of the regimental association; he was also chosen first
President of the brigade association. The other brigade officers were
Vice-President, Gen. Daniel Dustin; Second Vice-President, Gen. A. W.
Doane; Secretary, J. M. Ayers; Treasurer, E. H. Conger.

In the absence of Mayor Denny, City Attorney W. L. Taylor cordially
welcomed the veterans to Indianapolis. To this greeting the presiding
officer, President Harrison, responded:

  _Mr. Taylor_--The survivors of the Seventieth Indiana Volunteer
  Infantry, now assembled in annual reunion, have heard, with great
  gratification, the cordial words of welcome which you have addressed
  to us. We have never doubted the hospitality of the citizens of this
  great city, and have several times held our reunions here; and if
  we have more frequently sought some of the quieter towns in this
  Congressional district--where the regiment was organized--it has
  only been because we could be a little more to ourselves than was
  possible in this city. You will not think this a selfish instinct when
  I tell you that, as the years go on, these reunions of our regiment
  become more and more a family affair; and as in the gathering of
  the scattered members of a family in the family reunion, so we have
  loved, when we get together as comrades, to be somewhat apart, that
  we might enjoy each other. It has been pleasant, I am sure, however,
  to link this annual reunion with the great event of yesterday. It did
  us good to meet with our comrades of the whole State--those who had
  other numbers on their uniforms, but carried the same flag under which
  we marched--in these exercises connected with the dedication of a
  monument that knows no regimental distinction. [Applause.]

  If those having charge now will announce some proper arrangement by
  which I can take by the hand the members, not only of the Seventieth
  Indiana, but any comrades of the First Brigade, who have done us honor
  by meeting with us to-day, I would be glad to conform to their wishes.
  It is perhaps possible that, without leaving the hall, simply by an
  exchange of seats, this may be accomplished, and when that is done
  there may yet be time before dinner to proceed with some other of the
  exercises upon the programme.




CHICAGO, DECEMBER 9, 1889.


Monday morning, December 9, 1889, President Harrison, accompanied
by Mr. and Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, Mrs. McKee, and First Ass't
Postmaster-General J. S. Clarkson and wife, arrived in Chicago for the
purpose of participating in the dedication of the great Auditorium
building, in which--while in an unfinished state--was held the
convention of June, 1888, that nominated General Harrison for the
presidency. The distinguished party was met by a committee comprising
Mayor D. C. Cregier, Ferd. W. Peck, Gen. Geo. W. Crook, Hon. A. L.
Seeberger, Col. James A. Sexton, Alexander H. Revell, Franklin S.
Head, C. L. Hutchinson, Charles Counselman, J. J. P. Odell, Col. O. A.
Schaffner, F. S. Bissell, and R. W. Dunham.

During the morning the President and Vice-President Morton, under the
guidance of Mr. Ferd. Peck, visited the Board of Trade and were tendered
an enthusiastic reception by the members of that famous exchange. Then
followed a reception and lunch at the Union League Club, as the guests
of Mr. Peck and President Bissell of the Club. Other prominent citizens
present were Governor Fifer, Geo. M. Pullman, Marshall Field, Joseph
Medill, S. M. Nickerson, J. R. Rumsey, N. K. Fairbank, Sam. W. Allerton,
A. A. Sprague, H. H. Kohlsaat, Wm. Penn Nixon, A. L. Patterson, Adolph
Caron, C. I. Peck, A. L. Coe, John R. Walsh, J. W. Scott, John B.
Carson, M. A. Ryerson, V. F. Lawson, and O. W. Meysenberg. Later in the
afternoon the President and Mr. Morton, accompanied by Governor Hoard,
of Wisconsin, General Alger, and Judge Thurston, visited the Marquette
Club--of which the President is an honorary member--and were received by
President Revell, Secretary Gould, H. M. Kingman, C. W. Gordon, and C.
E. Nixon, comprising the Reception Committee.

The dedication of the auditorium hall in the evening was an event of
rare interest in the history of Chicago. President Harrison and his
party and Vice-President and Mrs. Morton were the honored guests of
the occasion. Other distinguished out-of-town guests were Sir Adolph
Caron, Hon. G. A. Kirkpatrick, C. H. McIntosh, and Mr. Wells, of Canada;
Governor and Mrs. Fifer; Governor and Mrs. Merriam, of Minnesota;
Governor Hoard, of Wisconsin; Governor and Mrs. Larrabee, of Iowa; Mrs.
Governor Gordon; ex-Governor Morton, of Nebraska; General Alger, Judge
and Mrs. Walter Q. Gresham; Mr. and Mrs. House, of St. Louis, and Mr.
and Mrs. F. J. Mackey, of Kansas City.

The Auditorium--the modern Parthenon--typifying the spirit of the age,
is largely the conception of Mr. Ferd. W. Peck, and its realization is
the fruit of his zeal, supported and encouraged by the wealthy men of
Chicago. The great structure, costing three and a half million dollars,
was built by the Chicago Auditorium Association, whose officers at the
time of completion were: Ferd. W. Peck, President; N. K. Fairbank,
First Vice-President; John R. Walsh, Second Vice-President; Charles
L. Hutchinson, Treasurer; Charles H. Lunt, Secretary. The building
was begun June 1, 1887; the laying of the corner-stone occurred in
September that year, and was witnessed by President Cleveland and other
distinguished visitors. It has a frontage of 710 feet on Congress
Street, Michigan and Wabash avenues. The exterior material is granite
and Bedford stone. The height of the main structure is 145 feet, or
ten stories; height of tower above main building 95 feet, or eight
floors; height of lantern above main tower 30 feet, or two floors;
total height 270 feet--one of the tallest buildings in the world. The
permanent seating capacity of the auditorium is over 4,000, but for
conventions--by utilizing stage--this capacity is increased to 8,000.
A feature of the great hall is the grand organ. In addition to this
unrivalled convention hall the colossal structure contains a recital
hall, 136 stores and offices, a hotel with 400 guest rooms, and a
magnificent banquet hall 175 feet long.

The gathering at the dedicatory exercises nationalized the Auditorium;
15,000 people were within its walls. The President and Mrs. McKee were
the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Ferd. W. Peck. Among the several thousand
prominent residents present were the following gentlemen and their
families--stockholders in the Auditorium Association: G. E. Adams, A.
C. Bartlett, G. M. Bogue, C. W. Brega, J. W. Doane, J. B. Drake, J.
K. Fisher, Carter H. Harrison, Charles Henrotin, O. R. Keith, G. F.
Kimball, S. D. Kimbark, J. T. Lester, W. L. Peck, R. W. Roloson, W.
C. Seipp, Lazarus Silverman, Robert Warren, John Wilkinson, Jr., C.
S. Willoughby, C. T. Yerkes, J. McGregor Adams, W. T. Baker, Gen. J.
C. Black, H. Botsford, R. R. Cable, C. R. Cummings, J. C. Dore, G. L.
Dunlap, C. B. Farwell, J. J. Glessner, E. G. Kieth, W. D. Kerfoot, W. W.
Kimball, L. Z. Leiter, J. M. Loomis, A. A. Munger, N. B. Ream, Conrad
Seipp, J. G. Shortall, W. Sooy Smith, P. B. Weare, Norman Williams, F.
H. Winston, and J. Otto Young.

The exercises opened with an address of welcome by Mayor Cregier,
followed by a speech from Mr. Peck, President of the Association, who
received an ovation. President Harrison's address was followed by the
rendition of the hymn "America" by the Apollo Club of 500 trained
voices. Hon. John S. Runnells delivered the dedicatory oration. Then
came the real event of the day--"Home, Sweet Home" and the "Swiss Echo
Song" by the incomparable songstress Adelina Patti, who shared the
honors of the occasion with the President. The programme concluded with
an address by Governor Fifer and the grand "Hallelujah" chorus from "The
Messiah."

As Mr. Peck introduced President Harrison the great assembly
enthusiastically testified its welcome. The President spoke as follows:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--Some of my newspaper friends have been
  puzzling themselves in order to discover the reason why I left
  Washington to be present here to-night. I do not think I need, in view
  of the magnificent spectacle presented to us here to-night, to state
  the motives which have impelled my presence. Surely no loyal citizen
  of Chicago who sits here to-night under this witching and magnificent
  scene will ask for any other reason than that which is here presented.
  [Applause.]

  I do most heartily congratulate you upon the completion and
  inauguration of this magnificent building--without an equal in this
  country, and, so far as I know, without an equal in the world.
  [Applause.] We have here about us to-night in this grand architecture,
  in this tasteful decoration, that which is an education and an
  inspiration. [Applause.] It might well tempt one whose surroundings
  were much farther removed from this scene than is the capital city
  to make a longer journey than I have done to stand for an hour
  in the view of such a spectacle of magnificence and grandeur and
  architectural triumph as this. [Applause.] And if that be true,
  surely there is reason enough why the President may turn aside for a
  little while from public duty to mingle with his fellow-citizens in
  celebrating an event so high and so worthy of commemoration as this
  triumph to-night. [Prolonged applause.]

  Not speech, certainly, not the careless words of an extemporaneous
  speech, can adequately express all the sentiments I feel in
  contemplating the fitting culmination of this deed. [Applause.] Only
  the voice of the immortal singer can bring from these arches those
  echoes which will tell us the true purpose of their construction.
  [Applause.]

  You will permit me, then, to thank you, to thank the Mayor of
  Chicago, to thank the President of this Association, and to thank all
  those good citizens with whom I have to-day been brought in personal
  contact, for the kindness and respect with which you and they have
  received me; and you will permit me to thank you, my fellow-citizens,
  for the cordiality which you have kindly displayed here to-night.

  It is my wish, and may it be the wish of all, that this great
  building may continue to be to all your population that which it
  should be--an edifice opening its doors from night to night, calling
  your people here away from the care of business to those enjoyments,
  and pursuits, and entertainments which develop the souls of men
  [applause], which will have power to inspire those whose lives are
  heavy with daily toil, and in its magnificent and enchanting presence
  lift them for a time out of these dull things into those higher things
  where men should live. [Great applause.]




CLEVELAND, OHIO, MAY 30, 1890.

_Garfield Memorial Dedication._


On Decoration Day, 1890, President Harrison and Vice-President Morton,
accompanied by Secretary Windom, Postmaster-General Wanamaker,
Attorney-General Miller, Secretary of Agriculture Rusk, and Marshal
Daniel M. Ransdell, visited the city of Cleveland for the purpose of
participating in the dedication of the grand mausoleum erected to the
memory of the lamented President James Abram Garfield. Fifty thousand
people greeted the President and his party on arrival.

The mausoleum is situated in Lake View Cemetery, overlooking a region
closely associated with Garfield's memory; it is built of Ohio
sandstone--a large and imposing circular tower 50 feet in diameter,
rising 180 feet. At the base projects a square porch, decorated
externally with an historical frieze, divided into panels containing
life-size bas-reliefs picturing the career of Garfield as teacher,
statesman, soldier, and President. This imposing monument was erected
under the auspices of the Garfield National Memorial Association, whose
officers were: Rutherford B. Hayes, President; J. H. Wade and T. P.
Handy, Vice-Presidents; Amos Townsend, Secretary. The Trustees of the
Association were: Charles Foster, R. B. Hayes, James G. Blaine, H. B.
Payne, J. H. Wade, Dan'l P. Eells, J. H. Rhodes, James Barnett, John
Hay, T. P. Handy, J. B. Parsons, William Bingham, W. S. Streator, and H.
C. White. The memorial cost $150,000, of which $75,000 was contributed
by citizens of Cleveland; the architect was George Keller, of Hartford,
Connecticut.

More than 100,000 people witnessed the parade and the dedicatory
ceremonies, which were conducted under the auspices of the Grand
Commandery, Knights Templars of Ohio--Right Eminent Henry Perkins,
of Akron, Grand Commander; Very Eminent William B. Melish, of
Cincinnati, Grand Marshal; Eminent Sir Huntington Brown, of Mansfield,
Generalissimo; Eminent Sir L. F. Van Cleve, of Cincinnati, Grand
Prelate; Eminent Sir H. P. McIntosh, of Cleveland, Grand Senior Warden;
and Eminent Sir J. Burton Parsons, of Cleveland, Grand Treasurer.
The committee to receive and entertain the guests from other cities
comprised the following prominent residents of Cleveland: Hon. J. H.
Wade, Dan'l P. Eells, M. A. Hanna, Col. William Edwards, Hon. R. C.
Parsons, Henry D. Coffinberry, Gen. M. D. Leggett, Hon. George H.
Ely, Hon. Joseph Turney, Samuel Andrews, Hon. S. Buhrer, Hon. H. B.
Payne, Charles F. Brush, Hon. Charles A. Otis, R. K. Hawley, William
Chisholm, H. R. Hatch, W. J. McKinnie, John Tod, Hon. N. B. Sherwin,
L. E. Holden, George W. Howe, Samuel L. Mather, Judge S. Burke, Col.
John Hay, Hon. T. E. Burton, Hon. R. R. Herrick, Selah Chamberlain,
A. Wiener, Charles Wesley, Hon. Lee McBride, Hon. O. J. Hodge, H. C.
Ranney, G. E. Herrick, Hon. W. W. Armstrong, S. T. Everett, Judge J.
M. Jones, Hon. J. H. Farley, Hon. G. W. Gardner, R. R. Rhodes, J. B.
Zerbe, Samuel W. Sessions, Louis H. Severance, Hon. M. A. Foran, Hon.
C. B. Lockwood, Hon. William Bingham, John F. Whitelaw, Fayette Brown,
Capt. P. G. Watmough, E. R. Perkins, Bolivar Butts, George T. Chapman,
Hon. D. A. Dangler, Charles Hickox, and George W. Pack. Committee on
Finance: John H. McBride, Myron T. Herrick, S. C. Ford, Joseph Turney,
Charles L. Pack, H. S. Whittlesey, H. R. Groff, Percy W. Rice, Charles
H. Bulkley, Douglas Perkins, Kaufman Hays, M. A. Hanna, T. S. Knight,
James Parmelee, I. P. Lampson, Samuel Mather, O. M. Stafford, C. J.
Sheffield, Harvey H. Brown, J. K. Bole, Dan'l P. Eells, H. R. Hatch,
John F. Pankhurst, John Tod, and George P. Welch.

The event called together one of the most distinguished assemblies of
the decade. Among the guests not previously mentioned--who occupied
places of honor--were Gen. William T. Sherman, Chief-Justice Melville
W. Fuller, Maj.-Gen. John M. Schofield, ex-Postmaster-General Thomas L.
James, Gov. James E. Campbell, Lieutenant-Governor Marquis, Hon. William
McKinley, Jr., Bishop William A. Leonard, Bishop Gilmour, Col. Wm. Perry
Fogg, and many others. Mrs. Garfield was accompanied by her four sons,
her daughter, and General and Mrs. John Newell.

The spectacular event of the day was the grand military and civic
parade, participated in by President Harrison and the other guests.
Six thousand men were in line, commanded by Chief Marshal Gen. James
Barnett and a brilliant staff. At the head of the great column marched
115 survivors of Garfield's old regiment--the Forty-second Ohio--led by
Capt. C. E. Henry, of Dallas, Texas, the Colonel, Judge Don A. Pardee,
being absent. The procession comprised twelve divisions, commanded by
the following marshals: Capt. J. B. Molyneaux, Gen. M. D. Leggett, Col.
W. H. Hayward, Em. Sir M. J. Houck, Col. Louis Black, Col. John Dunn,
Capt. E. H. Bohm, Captain McNiel, Capt. Louis Perczel, Col. Allen T.
Brinsmade, Col. C. L. Alderson, and Capt. M. G. Browne.

Ex-President Hayes officiated as Chairman of the dedicatory meeting
at the mausoleum, and introduced Hon. Jacob D. Cox, of Cincinnati,
who delivered the oration of the occasion. Many other distinguished
men spoke briefly. When the Chairman introduced President Harrison an
ovation was tendered him, and almost every sentence of his address was
enthusiastically cheered.

The President spoke with great earnestness. He said:

  _Mr. Chairman and Fellow-citizens_--I thank you most sincerely
  for this cordial greeting, but I shall not be betrayed by it into a
  lengthy speech. The selection of this day for these exercises--a day
  consecrated to the memory of those who died that there might be one
  flag of honor and authority in this republic--is most fitting. That
  one flag encircles us with its folds to-day, the unrivalled object of
  our loyal love.

  This monument, so imposing and tasteful, fittingly typifies the
  grand and symmetrical character of him in whose honor it has been
  builded. His was "the arduous greatness of things done." No friendly
  hands constructed and placed for his ambition a ladder upon which
  he might climb. His own brave hands framed and nailed the cleats
  upon which he climbed to the heights of public usefulness and fame.
  He never ceased to be student and instructor. Turning from peaceful
  pursuits to army service, he quickly mastered tactics and strategy,
  and in a brief army career taught some valuable lessons in military
  science. Turning again from the field to the councils of state, he
  stood among the great debaters that have made our National Congress
  illustrious. What he might have been or done as President of the
  United States is chiefly left to friendly augury, based upon a career
  that had no incident of failure or inadequacy. The cruel circumstances
  attending his death had but one amelioration--that space of life was
  given him to teach from his dying bed a great lesson of patience and
  forbearance. His mortal part will find honorable rest here, but the
  lessons of his life and death will continue to be instructive and
  inspiring incidents in American history. [Great applause.]




BOSTON, AUGUST 11, 1890.

_The Guest of Massachusetts._


Monday afternoon, August 11, the cruiser _Baltimore_, bearing President
Harrison, Secretary Rusk, Secretary Noble, and a number of friends,
entered Boston harbor, saluted by the _Atlanta_, the _Kearsage_,
the _Petrel_, the _Yorktown_, the _Dolphin_, the dynamite cruiser
_Vesuvius_, and the torpedo-boat _Cushing_. The distinguished guests
were met by the Hon. John Q. A. Brackett, Governor of Massachusetts;
Hon. Alanson W. Beard, Collector of the Port; Adj.-Gen. Samuel Dalton,
Surg.-Gen. Alfred F. Holt, Judge Adv. Gen. Edward O. Shepard, Col.
Sidney M. Hedges, Col. Wm. P. Stoddard, Col. Samuel E. Winslow, and
Col. Edward V. Mitchell, of the Governor's military staff; Hon. Thomas
N. Hart, Mayor of Boston; Hon. Geo. L. Goodale, Chairman Executive
Committee National Encampment, G. A. R.; Hon. John D. Long, President
National Encampment Committee; Hon. E. S. Converse, Treasurer; and
Secretary Silas A. Barton.

Many thousand visiting veterans greeted the head of the Nation as he
passed through the historic streets escorted by the First Battalion of
Cavalry. Arrived at the Hotel Vendome, the President and his party, as
guests of the Commonwealth, attended a State banquet, presided over
by Governor Brackett. There was no speech-making. Other distinguished
guests were Vice-President Morton, Secretaries Proctor and Tracy,
General Sherman, Admiral Gherardi, Gov. Leon Abbett, of New Jersey,
and Lieutenant-Governor Hale, of Massachusetts. Later in the evening
Governor Brackett and staff escorted the President to the Parker House,
where they participated in a reception given by E. W. Kinsley Post of
Boston to Lafayette Post 149 of New York. Many veterans of national
fame were present, among them Gen. Lucius Fairchild, Gen. Dan'l E.
Sickles, Corporal James Tanner, ex-Gov. Austin Blair, of Michigan,
Commander Viele, of Lafayette Post, and the following prominent citizens
of Massachusetts, comprising the Reception Committee of the National
Encampment: Hon. Henry H. Sprague, President Massachusetts Senate; Hon.
Wm. E. Barrett, Speaker Massachusetts House; Hon. Wm. Power Wilson,
Chairman Boston Aldermen; Horace G. Allen, President Common Council;
Hon. John F. Andrew, Geo. H. Innis, Charles E. Osgood, Arthur A. Fowle,
Fred C. King, Paul H. Kendricken, J. H. O'Neil, Joel Goldthwaite, Hon.
Charles J. Noyes, Hon. E. A. Stevens, Horace G. Allen, Capt. Nathan
Appleton, Col. Albert Clarke, Chas. D. Rohan, F. C. Brownell, and
A. S. Fowle, of Boston; Gen. A. B. R. Sprague and Col. H. E. Smith,
of Worcester; John W. Hersey, of Springfield; John M. Deane, Fall
River; Gen. J. W. Kimball, Fitchburg; Maj. Geo. S. Merrill, Lawrence;
Wm. H. Lee, Greenwood; S. W. Benson, Charlestown; Joseph O. Burdett,
Hingham; Col. Myron P. Walker, Belchertown; and Arthur A. Smith, of
Griswoldsville. The reception concluded with a banquet. Col. Charles L.
Taylor acted as toastmaster and presented General Harrison, who received
an ovation.

In response to these cordial greetings the President said:

  _Comrades_--I do not count it the least of those fortunate
  circumstances which have occasionally appeared in my life that I am
  able to be here to-night to address you as comrades of the Grand Army
  of the United States. [Great applause.] It is an association great
  in its achievement and altogether worthy of perpetuation until the
  last of its members have fallen into an honorable grave. It is not my
  purpose to-night to address you in an extended speech, but only to say
  that, whether walking with you in the private pursuits of life, or
  holding a place of official responsibility, I can never, in either,
  forget those who upheld the flag of this Nation in those days when
  it was in peril. Everything that was worthy of preservation in our
  history past, everything that is glowing and glorious in the future,
  which we confront, turned upon the issue of that strife in which you
  were engaged. Will you permit me to wish for each of you a life full
  of all sweetness, and that each of you may preserve, undimmed, the
  love for the flag which called you from your homes to stand under its
  folds amid the shock of battle and amid dying men. I believe there are
  indications to-day in this country of a revived love for the flag.
  [Applause.] I could wish that no American citizen would look upon it
  without saluting it. [Loud applause.]




BOSTON, AUGUST 12.

_G. A. R. National Encampment._


The morning of August 12 the President and the several members of his
Cabinet, with Vice-President Morton, Governor Brackett, Mayor Hart,
General Sherman, Governor Dillingham and staff, of Vermont; Governor
Davis, of Rhode Island; Hon. William McKinley, Hon. Henry Cabot Lodge,
Mrs. John A. Logan, Mrs. R. A. Alger, Mrs. McKee, Mrs. A. L. Coolidge,
and Lillian Nordica, the _prima donna_, reviewed the grand parade of the
veterans from a stand in Copley Square. As the head of the great column
appeared, led by Commander-in-Chief R. A. Alger, with mounted staff
and escort numbering 600 officers, the President and his Cabinet arose
and saluted the veterans. General Alger and Gen. B. F. Butler reviewed
the column from a stand in Adams Square. The parade was five hours and
thirty-five minutes in passing.

In the evening the Mayor's Club of Boston tendered a banquet to
President Harrison and other distinguished visitors. Mayor Fisher, of
Waltham, introduced the Chief Executive, who said:

  _Mr. Chairman_--I wish only to thank you for this cordial welcome.
  Being upon my feet, I cannot refrain from expressing here my deep
  sense of gratitude for all the evidences of friendliness which have
  been shown me during my brief stay in Boston. The President of the
  United States, whosoever he may have been, from the first to the last,
  has always found in the citizenship of Massachusetts stanch supporters
  of the Union's Constitution. [Applause.] It has never occurred that he
  has called upon this great commonwealth for support that it has not
  been cordially and bravely rendered. In this magnificent parade which
  we have seen to-day of the survivors of the Massachusetts regiments
  in the war for the Union, and in this magnificent parade of the Sons
  of Veterans, coming on now to take the fathers' place in civil life
  and to stand as they were in their day as bulwarks of the Nation's
  defence, we have seen a magnificent evidence of what Massachusetts has
  done in defence of the Union and of the flag, and in these young men
  sure promise of what she would do again if the exigencies should call
  upon her to give her blood in a similar cause. [Applause.]

  Let me again cordially thank you for your interest and friendliness
  and to bid you good-night, and, as I must leave you to-night for
  Washington, to hope that the closing exercises of this grand and
  instructive week may be pleasant, and as the outcome of it all that
  there may be kindled in the hearts of you all, and of these comrades
  of the Grand Army of the Republic, a newer love for the flag and for
  the Constitution, and that this may all inure to us in social, family,
  and public life. [Applause and cheers.]

Quitting the Mayor's banquet, the President and members of the Cabinet,
with Admiral Gherardi and staff, proceeded to Mechanics' Hall,
where a joint reception of the Grand Army and Woman's Relief Corps
was in progress. At least 15,000 people greeted the arrival of the
distinguished visitors. On the platform with the President's party were
Miss Florence Barker, first President Woman's Relief Corps; Mrs. Annie
Wittenmyer, National President; Miss Clara Barton, President Red Cross
Association; Mrs. Mary E. Knowles, Massachusetts Department President;
Mrs. Cheney, National Secretary; Mrs. Lynch, National Treasurer; Mrs.
Nichols, National Inspector of the Relief Corps; Department Commander
T. S. Clarkson, Nebraska; Department Commander P. H. Darling, Ohio;
Governor Brackett and Congressman McKinley. George H. Innis, Commander
Massachusetts Department, welcomed the visiting comrades. Other speakers
were General Sherman, Commander-in-Chief Alger, and Vice-President
Morton.

General Harrison was introduced as Comrade Harrison, President of the
United States, and was greeted with tremendous applause. He spoke as
follows:

  _Mr. Chairman and Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic_--I
  had impressions both pleasurable and painful as I looked upon the
  great procession of veterans which swept through the streets of this
  historic capital to-day; pleasurable in the contemplation of so
  many faces of those who shared together the perils and glories of
  the great struggle for the Union; sensations of a mournful sort as
  I thought how seldom we should meet again. Not many times more here.
  As I have stood in the great national cemetery at Arlington and have
  seen those silent battalions of the dead, I have thought how swiftly
  the reaper is doing his work and how soon in the scattered cemeteries
  of the land the ashes of all the soldiers of the great war shall be
  gathered to honored graves. And yet I could not help but feel that
  in the sturdy tread of those battalions there was yet strength of
  heart and limb that would not be withheld if a present peril should
  confront the Nation that you love. [Applause.] And if Arlington is
  the death, we see to-day in the springing step of those magnificent
  battalions of the Sons of Veterans the resurrection. [Applause.] They
  are coming on to take our places, the Nation will not be defenceless
  when we are gone, but those who have read about the firesides of the
  veterans' homes, in which they have been born and reared, the lessons
  of patriotism and the stories of heroism will come fresh armed to any
  conflict that may confront us in the future. [Applause.]

  And so to-night we may gather from this magnificent spectacle a
  fresh and strong sense of security for the permanency of our country
  and our free institutions. I thought it altogether proper that I
  should take a brief furlough from official duties at Washington to
  mingle with you here to-day as a comrade [applause], because every
  President of the United States must realize that the strength of the
  Government, its defence in war, the army that is to muster under its
  banner when our Nation is assailed, is to be found here in the masses
  of our people. [Applause and cries of "Good!"] And so, as my furlough
  is almost done, and the train is already waiting that must bear me
  back to Washington, I can only express again the cordial, sincere,
  and fraternal interest which I feel this day in meeting you all. I
  can only hope that God will so order the years that are left to you
  that for you and those who are dear to you they may be ordered in all
  gentleness and sweetness, in all prosperity and success, and that,
  when at last the comrades who survive you shall wrap the flag of the
  Union about your body and bear it to the grave, you may die in peace
  and in the hope of a glorious resurrection! [Applause.]




CRESSON, PENNSYLVANIA, SEPTEMBER 13.


Nearly 1,000 veterans from the several G. A. R. posts of Altoona,
Tyronne, and Holidaysburg visited Cresson on September 13, 1890, for
the purpose of paying their respects to President Harrison. General
Ekin and Col. Theo. Burchfield headed the delegation. Other prominent
veterans were Post Commanders Painter, Beighel, Lewis, and Calvin; J.
C. Walters, W. H. Fentiman, Rob't Howe, Maj. John R. Garden, George
Kuhn, William Aiken, Oliver Sponsler, Wm. Guyer, Hon. J. W. Curry,
Capt. Joseph W. Gardner, and ex-Mayor Breth, of Altoona. The President
received the veterans at the Mountain House. After the reception J. D.
Hicks delivered a congratulatory address on behalf of the veterans.

General Harrison, speaking from the balcony of the hotel, warmly thanked
his comrades for their good wishes, and in mentioning the events of
the war referred feelingly to the tragic death of the great Lincoln
and the memorable words of Garfield on that occasion. His reference to
the Constitution and the flag, and the love of the people for them,
elicited a hearty response. He concluded as follows: "Now, my comrades,
who have suffered and still suffer for your country, I wish in this
world all good to you and your dear ones, and in the world to come joy
everlasting."




OSCEOLA, PENNSYLVANIA, SEPTEMBER 20.


During the stay of the President and his family at Cresson Springs
in September, 1890, they made an excursion through the celebrated
Clearfield coal regions, under the guidance of Frank L. Sheppard,
General Superintendent of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Geo. W. Boyd, Ass't
Gen'l Passenger Agent, Gen. D. H. Hastings, and S. S. Blair. The party
comprised the President and Mrs. Harrison, Mr. and Mrs. J. R. McKee,
Mrs. Dimmick, and Miss Alice Sanger, accompanied by Hon. John Patton,
of Curwensville, Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Dill, of Clearfield, and F. N.
Barksdale.

The first point visited was Osceola, where 5,000 people tendered the
President a rousing reception. The Committee of Reception were Geo. M.
Brisbin, D. R. Good, R. J. Walker, T. C. Heims, and J. R. Paisley. The
veterans of McLarren Post, G. A. R., acted as an escort through the town
from one depot to the other. The President briefly thanked the veterans
and citizens for extending him such a cordial reception.




HOUTZDALE, PENNSYLVANIA, SEPTEMBER 20.


Arrived at Houtzdale, about noon Saturday, the President and his party
were welcomed by an assemblage numbering fully 10,000. They were met at
Osceola by an escort committee consisting of G. W. Dickey, Abe Feldman,
Julius Viebahn, Thos. Rolands, B. W. Hess, W. E. Meek, W. C. Davis, W.
B. Hamilton, J. V. Henderson, J. B. McGrath, James White, D. W. Smith,
John Charlton, W. H. Patterson, and Thomas Byers.

All work in the mines and stores was suspended for the day, and the
visit of the Chief Magistrate was celebrated with a grand parade and
demonstration directed by Chief Burgess John Argyle, aided by the G. A.
R. veterans. The President was received by the following committee of
prominent citizens: W. Irvin Shaw, Esq., of the Clearfield County Bar;
W. C. Langsford, Alex. Monteith, John F. Farrell, Geo. P. Jones, Joseph
Delehunt, Harry Roach, Ad. Hanson, S. T. Henderson, R. R. Fleming, and
E. J. Duffy. The veterans of Wm. H. Kinkead Post acted as a guard of
honor to the President during the parade.

A notable incident of the demonstration was the reception by the
children of the parochial school. After the parade the formal reception
of the distinguished visitors took place in the presence of the great
assemblage. John F. Farrell presided, and introduced Chairman W. I.
Shaw, who delivered an eloquent address of welcome on behalf of the
citizens.

President Harrison responded as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I beg to assure you that I very highly
  appreciate your cordial welcome. I did not need the assurance of
  him who has spoken in your name that we are welcome in this home of
  profit and industry. As I have passed along the streets, and as I
  now look into your eyes, I have read welcome in every face. I do not
  regard this greeting as personal. How can it be, since you look into
  my face as I into yours for the first time? I assume that in this
  demonstration you are evidencing your loyalty and fidelity to the
  Government of which we are all citizens.

  You welcome me as one who, for the time being by your choice, is
  charged with the execution of the law. It is a great thing to be a
  citizen of this country, and the privilege has its corresponding
  obligations. This Government can never be wrecked by the treason or
  fault of those who for the time are placed in public position so
  long as the people are true to the principles of the Government and
  to the flag. [Applause.] Set your love upon the flag and that which
  it represents. Be ready, if occasion should call, to defend it, as
  my brave comrades did in the time of its greatest peril. Honor it
  in peace, cherish your loyal institutions, civil and educational;
  maintain social order in your community, let every one have respect
  for the rights and privileges of others while asserting his own.

  These are the springs of our national and social life. If these
  springs are kept pure and strong the great river they form will ever
  flow on in purity and majesty. If local interests are carefully
  preserved the general good is secured, and all our people, each in his
  own place--the place where he labors, the place where he lives, the
  roof under which his family is sheltered--will continue to enjoy the
  benison of liberty in the fear of God.

  To every one of you, those who come from the village shops, those
  who come from the mines and every vocation of life to join in this
  welcome, let me declare that I have no other purpose as President of
  the United States than to so administer my office as to promote the
  general good of all our people. [Great applause.]




PHILIPSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA, SEPTEMBER 20.


Other points visited were Clearfield, where the veterans of Lamar
Post and Colonel Barrett at the head of a committee received the
distinguished excursionists. At Curwensville the party became the guests
of A. E. Patton, and the President shook hands with 1,500 residents.

Philipsburg was reached at 3 P.M. The entire population of the town
welcomed the President. The Reception Committee comprised Major H. C.
Warfel, Hon. Chester Munson, J. B. Childs, O. P. Jones, S. S. Crissman,
W. E. Irwin, Dr. T. B. Potter, Capt. J. H. Boring, M. G. Lewis, Henry
Lehman, H. K. Grant, Al. Jones, W. T. Bair, Geo. W. Wythes, A. B. Herd,
John Nuttall, and A. J. Graham. The President and Mrs. Harrison were
driven through the city, which was elaborately decorated.

Returning to the station Mayor Warfel introduced the President, who said:

  _Citizens of Philipsburg_--I thank you for this very cordial
  expression of your esteem. You must excuse my not addressing you at
  any length because of the very limited time at our disposal. I again
  thank you.




WESTERN TOUR, OCTOBER, 1890.


On the morning of October 6, 1890, President Harrison left Washington
to attend the reunion of the First Brigade, Twentieth Army Corps,
at Galesburg, Ill., and to visit points in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri,
and Indiana. He was accompanied by Secretary Tracy, Gen. Charles H.
Grosvenor, Private Secretary Halford, Marshal Daniel M. Ransdell, Capt.
Wm. M. Meredith, Gen. T. J. Morgan, and E. F. Tibbott, stenographer.




CLIFTON FORGE, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 6.


The trip through Virginia was uneventful. At Staunton the President was
serenaded, and among those who met him were ex-Congressman Desendorf, of
Virginia, and David Stewart, of Indianapolis. Clifton Forge was reached
at twilight, and nearly 1,000 residents heartily cheered the President
and called for a speech. In response he said:

  _My Friends_--I hope you will excuse me from making a speech. I have
  travelled for the first time over the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad,
  and I have noticed with great interest and pleasure the development
  which is being made along the road of the mineral resources of the
  State of Virginia. What I have seen moves me to offer my sincere
  congratulations on what you have already accomplished, and what is
  surely in store for you if you but make use of your resources and
  opportunities. [Cheers.]




LAWRENCEBURG, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


At Cincinnati, Tuesday morning, the party was joined by Archibald Eaton,
the President's nephew; Col. W. B. Shattuc, Col. John C. New, and a
committee of escort from Lawrenceburg, comprising Gen. Thomas J. Lucas,
Archibald Shaw, John O. Cravens, John K. Thompson, and Valentine J.
Koehler. Near North Bend, Ohio, the old Harrison homestead was reached,
and the train came to a stop just abreast the house in which Benjamin
Harrison was born, and but a few yards from the white shaft that marks
the tomb of his illustrious ancestor, President William Henry Harrison.
The occasion was not for words, and as the President passed to the rear
platform he was unaccompanied by the rest of the party, who left him to
the memories that the scenes of his childhood and youth called forth.

Arrived at Lawrenceburg the President was visibly affected at meeting
many old friends and neighbors of years ago. Among the leading citizens
who welcomed him were: John Isherwood, Z. Heustes, Peter Braun, Dr. J.
D. Gatch, Frank R. Dorman, D. W. C. Fitch, J. H. Burkham, W. H. Rucker,
Wm. Probasco, Louis Adler, H. G. Kidd, John S. Dorman, John B. Garnier,
A. D. Cook, Chas. Decker, John F. Cook, Dr. T. C. Craig, C. J. B. Ragin,
J. E. Larimer, D. E. Sparks, and Capt. John Shaw; also, M. C. Garber, of
Madison, Robert Cain, of Brookville, and Alfred Shaw, of Vevay, Ind.

The President addressed the large assembly in a voice heavy with
emotion. He said:

  _My Friends_--I want to thank you very cordially for this greeting.
  All the scenes about here are very familiar to me. This town of
  Lawrenceburg is the first village of my childish recollections,
  and as I approached it this morning, past the earliest home of my
  recollections, the home in which my childhood and early manhood were
  spent, memories crowded in upon me that were very full of interest,
  very full of pleasure, and yet full of sadness. They bring back to me
  those who once made the old home very dear, the most precious spot
  on earth. I have passed with bowed head the place where they rest.
  We are here in our generation, with the work of those who have gone
  before upon us. Let us see, each of us, that in the family, in the
  neighborhood, and in the State, we do at least with equal courage,
  and grace, and kindness, the work which was so bravely, kindly, and
  graciously done by those who filled our places fifty years ago. Now,
  for I must hurry on, to these old friends, and to these new friends
  who have come in since Lawrenceburg was familiar to me, I extend again
  my hearty thanks for this welcome, and beg, in parting, to introduce
  the only member of my Cabinet who accompanies me, General Tracy,
  Secretary of the Navy.




NORTH VERNON, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


At North Vernon, Jennings County, many old acquaintances greeted the
President, among them J. C. Cope, John Fable, P. C. McGannon, and
others. Acknowledging the repeated cheers of the assembly, the President
said:

  _My Friends_--I am very glad to see you, and very much obliged to
  you for your pleasurable greeting. It is always a pleasure to see my
  old Indiana friends. We have had this morning a delightful ride across
  the southern part of the State, one that has given me a great deal of
  refreshment and pleasure. [Cheers.] Let me again assure you that I am
  very much obliged to you for this evidence of your friendship. I hope
  you will excuse me from further speech on this occasion. It gives me
  pleasure now, my fellow-citizens, to introduce to you General Tracy,
  of New York, the Secretary of the Navy, who accompanies me on this
  trip. [Cheers.]




SEYMOUR, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


At Seymour, Jackson County, 2,000 citizens gave evidence of General
Harrison's popularity in that town. Among the prominent residents who
welcomed him were Hon. W. K. Marshall, Louis Schneck, Travis Carter, Ph.
Wilhelm, W. F. Peters, J. B. Morrison, R. F. White, S. E. Carter, John
A. Ross, John A. Weaver, L. M. Mains, John A. Goodale, Theo. B. Ridlen,
and V. H. Monroe.

After he had introduced Secretary Tracy, the President said:

  _My Friends_--I feel that I ought to thank you for your friendly
  greeting this beautiful morning. It is a pleasure indeed to me to
  greet so many of you. Again I thank you for this welcome. A request
  has just been handed me that I speak a few minutes to the school
  children here assembled. I scarcely know what to say to them, except
  that I have a great interest in them, and the country has a great
  interest in them. Those who, like myself, have passed the meridian
  of life realize more than younger men that the places we now hold
  and the responsibilities we now carry in society and in all social
  and business relations must devolve upon those who are now in the
  school. Our State has magnificently provided for their education, so
  that none of them need be ignorant, and I am sure that in these happy
  homes the fathers and mothers are not neglecting their duties, but are
  instilling into these young minds morality and respect for the law
  which must crown intelligence in order to make them.




SHOALS, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


The citizens of Shoals, the county seat of Martin County, gave the
President a most cordial reception. Prominent among those friends who
welcomed him were R. E. Hunt, J. A. Chenoweth, J. P. Albaugh, J. B.
Freeman, J. T. Rogers, M. Shirey, S. P. Yeune, H. Q. Houghton, James
Mahany, C. H. Mohr, S. N. Gwin, F. J. Masten, C. S. Dobbins, and N. H.
Matsinger.

Responding to their cheers and calls the President said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I am very glad to see you. My trip this
  morning is more like a holiday than I have had for a long time. I am
  glad to see the cordiality of your welcome. It makes me feel that I am
  still held somewhat in the esteem of the people whose friendship I so
  very much covet and desire to retain. [Cheers.]




SULLIVAN, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


It was an agreeable surprise to the President to find several thousand
people awaiting an opportunity to greet him at the town of Sullivan. Of
prominent townsmen there were present J. H. Clugage, G. W. Buff, Rob't
H. Crowder, John T. Hays, C. P. Lacey, C. F. Briggs, O. H. Crowder, S.
Goodman, R. B. Mason, W. A. Bell, Joseph Hayden, John H. Dickerson, and
R. F. Knotts.

In answer to repeated calls for a speech the President said:

  _My Friends_--Some of you have requested that I would give you a
  little talk. The range of things that I can say on an occasion like
  this is very limited, but one thing, though it seems to involve
  repetition, I can say to you very heartily and very sincerely: I am
  very glad to again look into the faces of my Indiana friends. I trust
  I have friends that are not in Indiana, but my earliest and my best
  are here. Again I thank you. [Cheers.]




TERRE HAUTE, INDIANA, OCTOBER 7.


The principal demonstration of the day was at Terre Haute, where fully
10,000 people greeted the President. The following Reception Committee
escorted the party from Vincennes: Hon. W. R. McKeen, H. Hulman, Sr.,
Judge C. F. McNutt, George W. Faris, Samuel Huston, A. Herz, W. C.
Isbell, R. A. Campbell, Dr. Rob't Van Valzah, Jacob D. Early, George
E. Pugh, A. G. Austin, F. E. Benjamin, and B. G. Hudnut. _En route_ to
the speaker's stand every bell and steam whistle in the city added its
tribute to the enthusiasm of the occasion. This unique Hoosier welcome
was arranged by D. C. Greiner. Other leading citizens participating
prominently in the reception were: D. W. Minshall, N. Filbeck, Judge B.
E. Rhoades, S. C. Beach, J. S. Tally, Senator Bischawsky, G. W. Bement,
Jay Cummings, Geo. M. Allen, and P. S. Westfall.

Mayor Frank C. Danaldson made the welcoming address, and concluded by
introducing President Harrison, who said:

  _Mr. Mayor, Fellow-citizens of Indiana, Ladies and Gentlemen_--I
  very heartily appreciate this large gathering assembled to greet me.
  I very heartily appreciate the welcome which your kind and animated
  faces, as well as the spoken words of the chief officer of your city,
  have extended to me. I have known this pretty city for more than
  thirty years, and have watched its progress and growth. It has always
  been the home of some of my most cherished personal friends, and I am
  glad to know that your city is in an increasing degree prosperous,
  and your people contented and happy. I am glad to know that the local
  industries which have been established in your midst are to-day busy
  in producing their varied products, and that these find a ready market
  at remunerative prices. I was told as we approached your city that
  there was not an idle wheel in Terre Haute. It is very pleasant to
  know that this prosperity is so generally shared by all our people.
  Hopefulness, and cheer, and courage tend to bring and maintain good
  times.

  We differ widely in our views of public politics, but I trust every
  one of us is devoted to the flag which represents the unity and
  power of our country and to the best interests of the people, as we
  are given to see and understand those interests. [Applause.] We are
  in the enjoyment of the most perfect system of government that has
  ever been devised for the use of men. We are under fewer restraints;
  the individual faculties and liberties have wider range here than in
  any other land. Here a sky of hope is arched over the head of every
  ambitious, industrious, and aspiring young man. There are no social
  conditions; there are no unneeded legal restrictions. Let us continue
  to cherish these institutions and to maintain them in their best
  development. Let us see that as far as our influence can bring it to
  pass they are conducted for the general good. [Applause.]

  It gives me pleasure to bring into your city to-day one who is the
  successor as the head of the Navy Department of that distinguished
  citizen of Indiana who is especially revered and loved by all the
  people of Terre Haute, but is also embraced in the wider love of all
  the citizens of Indiana--Col. Richard W. Thompson. Let me present to
  you Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy, of New York, the Secretary of the Navy.
  [Cheers.]




DANVILLE, ILLINOIS, OCTOBER 7.


Danville was reached at 6 P.M. The roar of cannon sounded a hearty
welcome to the Prairie State. Fully 10,000 people were assembled around
the pavilion erected near the station. Among the prominent residents who
received the President on the part of the citizens were: Hon. Joseph G.
Cannon, Mayor W. R. Lawrence, Justice J. W. Wilkin, of the Supreme Court
of Illinois, Col. Samuel Stansbury, H. P. Blackburn, W. R. Jewell, M. J.
Barger, W. C. Tuttle, Henry Brand, and Capt. J. G. Hull.

Congressman Cannon introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I regret that the time of our arrival and the
  brief time we can give you should make it so inconvenient for you
  who have assembled here to greet us. Yet, though the darkness shuts
  out your faces, I cannot omit to acknowledge with the most heartfelt
  gratitude the enthusiastic greeting of this large assembly of my
  fellow-citizens. It is quite worth while, I think, for those who are
  charged with great public affairs now and then to turn aside from
  the routine of official duties to look into the faces of the people.
  [Applause.] It is well enough that all public officers should be
  reminded that under our republican institutions the repository of
  all power, the originator of all policy, is the people of the United
  States. [Great applause.] I have had the pleasure of visiting this
  rich and prosperous section of your great State before, and am glad
  to notice that, if the last year has not yielded an average return to
  your farms, already the promise of the coming year is seen in your
  well-tilled fields. Let me thank you again and bid you good-night.
  [Great applause.]




CHAMPAIGN, ILLINOIS, OCTOBER 7.


At Urbana, Ill., Secretary Tracy addressed several thousand residents.
At Champaign the citizens were attended by the students of the
University of Illinois, who received the President with their college
cheer. Among the leading citizens who participated in welcoming the
Chief Executive were Dr. L. S. Wilcox, John W. Spalding, F. K. Robinson,
P. W. Woody, H. H. Harris, J. L. Ray, T. J. Smith, H. Swannell, Ozias
Riley, A. P. Cunningham, J. B. Harris, Edward Bailey, Solon Philbrick,
C. J. Sabin, W. S. Maxwell, L. W. Faulkner, J. W. Mulliken, Judge C.
B. Smith, W. P. Lockwood, W. A. Heath, Geo. F. Beardsley, Hon. Abel
Harwood, W. H. Munhall, A. W. Spalding, and C. M. Sherfey.

President Harrison said:

  _My Good Friends_--It is very evident that there is a large
  representation here of the Greek societies. [Cheers.] I thank you
  for this greeting. We are on our way to Galesburg to unite with
  my old comrades in arms of the First Brigade, Third Division,
  Twentieth Army Corps, in a reunion. I had not expected here, or at
  any other intermediate point on the journey, to make addresses, but
  I cannot fail to thank these young gentlemen from the University of
  Illinois for the interest their presence gives to this meeting. Your
  professors, no doubt, give you all needed admonition and advice,
  and you will, I am sure, thank me for not adding to your burdens.
  Good-night. [Cheers.]




PEORIA, ILLINOIS, OCTOBER 8.


The third day of the President's journey found him in Peoria, where
he was warmly welcomed by Mayor Charles C. Clarke at the head of the
following committee of prominent citizens: Alexander G. Tyng, Jr.,
President Board of Trade; John D. Soules, President Travelling Men's
Association; editor Eugene Baldwin, and Hon. Julius S. Starr. Miss Elsie
Leslie Lyde, the child actress, on behalf of the citizens and the Grand
Army, presented the President with a beautiful bouquet, which the Chief
Magistrate acknowledged by kissing the little orator in the presence of
the great assemblage.

Mayor Clarke introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is not possible that I should introduce
  this morning any serious theme. I have greatly enjoyed this trip
  through my own State and yours, sisters in loyalty and sacrifice for
  the Union, sisters also in prosperity and honor. I find myself simply
  saying thank you, but with an increasing sense of the kindness of the
  people. If anything could add to the solemn sense of responsibility
  which my official oath places upon me, it would be these evidences
  of friendliness and confidence. The great mass of the people of this
  country are loyal, loving, dutiful citizens, ready to support every
  faithful officer in the discharge of his duties and to applaud every
  honest effort for their good. It is a source of great strength to know
  this, and this morning, not less from this bright sunshine and this
  crisp Illinois air than from these kindly faces, I draw an inspiration
  to do what I can, the very best I can, to promote the good of the
  people of the United States. I go to-day to meet with some comrades
  of your State who stood with me in the army of the great Union for
  the defence of the flag. I beg now to thank these comrades of Peoria
  and this company of National Guards and all these friends, and you,
  Mr. Mayor and gentlemen of the Reception Committee, for this kindly
  greeting, and to say that I have great satisfaction in knowing the
  people of this community are very prosperous. May that prosperity
  increase until every citizen, even the humblest, shares it. May peace,
  social order, and the blessing of God abide in every house is my
  parting wish for you. [Cheers.]




GALESBURG, ILLINOIS, OCTOBER 8.

_The Public Reception._


During the trip from Peoria the President and Secretary Tracy rode a
goodly portion of the distance on the locomotive with Engineer Frank
Hilton, a veteran who served in the President's old command. Galesburg,
the principal objective point of the journey, was reached at noon on
October 8, where 10,000 patriotic citizens greeted their arrival. Mayor
Loren Stevens, at the head of the following committee, received and
welcomed the President: Forrest F. Cooke, President of the Day, Judge
A. A. Smith, Hon. H. M. Sisson, Hon. O. F. Price, Maj. H. H. Clay, Z.
Beatty, Henry Emerich, James M. Ayres, Francis A. Free, Gersh Martin, F.
C. Rice, C. D. Hendryx, Gen. F. C. Smith, John Bassett, R. W. Sweeney,
Sam'l D. Harsh, Colonel Phelps, Hon. Philip S. Post, Rev. John Hood,
Rev. G. J. Luckey, H. A. Drake, Matthias O'Brien, K. Johnson, C. P.
Curtis, H. C. Miles, Capt. E. O. Atchinson, and Mr. Weeks. Fully 2,000
veterans participated in the parade; also the local militia, commanded
by Captain Elder and Lieutenants Ridgley and Tompkins; Company D,
Fifth Regiment, from Quincy, Capt. F. B. Nichols, Lieutenants Treet
and Whipple; Company H, Sixth Regiment, Monmouth, Capt. D. E. Clarke,
Lieutenants Shields and Turnbull; Company I, Sixth Regiment, Morrison,
Capt. W. F. Colebaugh, Lieutenants Griffin and Baker.

Arriving at the Court-House Park, Mayor Stevens delivered the address of
welcome. President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--The magnitude of this vast
  assemblage to-day fills me with surprise and with consternation as I
  am called to make this speech to you. I came here to meet with the
  survivors of my old brigade. I came here with the expectation that the
  day would chiefly be spent in their companionship and in the exchange
  of those cordial greetings which express the fondness and love which
  we bear to each other; but to my surprise I have found that here
  to-day the First Brigade, for the first time in its history, has been
  captured. One or two of them I have been able to take by the hand, a
  few more of them I have seen as they marched by the reviewing stand,
  but they seemed to have been swallowed up in this vast concourse of
  their associate comrades and their fellow-citizens of Illinois. I hope
  there may yet be a time during the day when I shall be able to take
  each by the hand, and to assure them that in the years of separation
  since muster-out day I have borne them all sacredly in my affectionate
  remembrance. They were a body of representative soldiers, coming from
  these great central States of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and as the
  borders of those States touch in friendly exchange, so the elbows of
  these great heroes and patriots touched in the great struggle for the
  Union. Who shall say who was chiefest? Who shall assign honors where
  all were brave? The distinction that Illinois may claim in connection
  with this organization is that, given equal courage, fidelity, and
  loyalty to every man, Illinois furnished three-fifths of the brigade.
  But possibly I should withhold here those suggestions which come to
  me, and which will be more appropriate when I meet them in a separate
  organization.

  I have been greatly impressed with this assemblage to-day in this
  beautiful city, in this rich and prosperous State. The thought had
  occurred to me, and the more I thought of it the more sure I was
  of the conclusion, that nowhere on the face of the earth except in
  the United States of America, under no flag that kisses any breeze,
  could such an assemblage as this have been gathered. Who are these?
  Look into these faces; see the evidences of contentment, thrift,
  prosperity, and intelligence that we read in all these faces. They
  have come by general summons from all these homes, of village,
  city, and farm, and here they are to-day the strength and rock of
  our security as a Nation; the people who furnished an invincible
  army when its flag was in danger; the people upon whose enlightened
  consciences and God-fearing hearts this country may rest with
  unguarded hope. Where is the ultimate distribution of governmental
  powers? How can all the efforts of President, cabinet and judges,
  and armies, even, serve to maintain this country, to continue it in
  its great career of prosperity, if there were lacking this great
  law-abiding, liberty-loving people by whom they are chosen to these
  important offices? It is the great thought of our country that men
  shall be governed as little as possible, but full liberty shall be
  given to individual effort, and that the restraints of law shall be
  reserved for the turbulent and disorderly. What is it that makes our
  communities peaceful? What is it that makes these farm-houses safe?
  It is not the policemen. It is not the soldiers. It is this great and
  all-pervading American sentiment that exalts the law, that stands with
  threatening warning to the law-breaker, and, above all, that pervading
  thought that gives to every man what is his and claims only what is
  our own. The war was only fought that the law might not lose its
  sanction and its sanctity. If we had suffered that loss, dismemberment
  would have been a lesser one. But we taught those who resisted law and
  taught the world that the great sentiment of loyalty to our written
  laws was so strong in this country that no associations, combinations,
  or conspiracies could overturn it. Our Government will not fail to go
  on in this increased career of development, in population, in wealth,
  in intelligence, in morality, so long as we hold up everywhere in the
  local communities and in the Nation this great thought that every man
  shall keep the law which secures him in his own rights, and shall not
  trample upon the rights of another. Let us divide upon tariff and
  finance, but let there never be a division among the American people
  upon this question, that nowhere shall the law be overturned in the
  interests of anybody. If it fails of beneficent purpose, which should
  be the object of all law, then let us modify it, but while it is a
  law let us insist that it shall be obeyed. When we turn from that
  and allow any other standard of living to be set up, where is your
  security, where is mine, when some one else makes convenience more
  sacred, more powerful than the law of the land?

  I believe to-day that the great rock of our security is this deeply
  imbedded thought in the American heart that does not, as in many of
  our Spanish-American countries, give its devotion to the man, but to
  the law, the Constitution, and to the flag. So that in that hour of
  gloom, when that richest contribution of all gems that Illinois has
  ever set in our Nation's diadem, Abraham Lincoln, and in that hour
  of the consummation of his work, dies by the hand of the assassin,
  Garfield, who was to meet a like fate, might say to the trembling and
  dismayed people: "Lincoln is dead, but the Government at Washington
  still lives."

  My fellow-citizens, to all those who, through your Mayor, have
  extended me their greeting, to all who are here assembled, I return
  my most sincere thanks. I do not look upon such assemblages without
  profound emotion. They touch me, and I believe they teach me, and
  I am sure that the lessons are wholesome lessons. We have had here
  to-day this procession of veterans, aged and feeble many of them.
  That is retrospective. That is part of the great story of the past,
  written in glorious letters on the firmament that is spread above
  the world. And in these sweet children who have followed we read the
  future. How sweet it was to see them bearing in their infant hands
  these same banners that those veterans carried amid the shot and
  battle and dying of men! I had occasion at the centennial celebration
  of the inauguration of Washington in New York, being impressed by the
  great display of national colors, to make a suggestion that the flag
  should be taken into the schoolhouses, and I am glad to know that in
  that State there is daily a little drill of the children that pays
  honor to the flag. But, my friends, the Constitution provides that
  I shall annually give information to Congress of the state of the
  Union and make such recommendations as I may think wise, and it has
  generally been understood, I think, that this affirmative provision
  contains a negative and implies that the President is to give no one
  except Congress any information as to the state of the Union, and
  that he shall especially make no suggestions that can be in any shape
  misconstrued.

  I confess that it would give me great pleasure, if the occasion were
  proper, to give you some information as to the state of the Union as I
  see it, and to make some suggestions as to what I think would be wise
  as affecting the state of the Union. But I would not on an occasion
  like this, when I am greeted here by friends, fellow-citizens of all
  shades of thought in politics and in the Church, say a word that could
  mar the harmony of this great occasion. I trust we are all met here
  together to-day as loyal-loving American citizens, and that over all
  our divisions and differences there is this great arch of love and
  loyalty binding us together.

  And now you will excuse me from further speech when I have said
  again that I am profoundly grateful to the people of Galesburg and
  this vicinity, and to these, my comrades in arms, who have so warmly
  opened their arms to welcome me to-day. [Cheers.]


_Reunion First Brigade, Third Division, Twentieth Army Corps._

In the afternoon General Harrison attended the reunion of the First
Brigade Association, of which he is President. This brigade was the
General's command in the late war, and comprised the Seventieth Indiana
Regiment, Seventy-ninth Ohio, One Hundred and Second, One Hundred and
Fifth, and One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Illinois. Many veterans were
present from these regiments. Among the prominent participants were:
Generals Daniel Dustin and E. F. Dutton, Sycamore, Ill.; Gen. F. C.
Smith, Galesburg; Gen. A. W. Doane, Wilmington, Ohio; General Miles,
Col. H. C. Corbin, H. H. Carr, N. E. Gray, Dr. P. L. McKinnie, and
Colonel Sexton, Chicago; H. H. McDowell, Pontiac; Capt. Edward L.
Patterson, Cleveland; Capt. F. E. Scott, Brokenbow, Neb.; Capt. J. T.
Merritt, Aledo; Major M. G. McLain, Indianapolis; Capt. J. E. Huston,
Clearfield, Iowa; James M. Ayers, R. M. Smock, Colonel Mannon, Major
Jack Burst, Wm. Eddleman, C. D. Braidemeyer, Capt. T. U. Scott, Capt.
T. S. Rogers, C. P. Curtis, Captain Bodkins, and others. Congressman
Thos. J. Henderson and many of the above-mentioned officers made brief
speeches during the reunion. General Dustin occupied the chair pending
the election of officers for the ensuing year. General Harrison's
re-election as President of the Association was carried amid cheers, and
as he appeared to assume the presiding chair the veterans gave him a
rousing reception.

The President then addressed the brigade as follows:

  _Comrades_--The object of my visit to Galesburg was this meeting
  which we are to have now. I should not, I think, have been persuaded
  to make this trip except for the pleasure which I expected to find
  in meeting the men of the old brigade, from most of whom I have been
  separated since the muster-out day. We have had a great demonstration,
  one very full of interest, on the streets and in the park, but I think
  we are drawn a little closer in this meeting and understand each other
  a little better than in the larger assemblages of which we have made a
  part. It is very pleasant for me to see so many here. I cannot recall
  the names of all of you. Time has wrought its changes upon the faces
  of us all. You recognize me because there were not so many colonels
  as there were soldiers--fortunately, perhaps, for the country.
  [Laughter.] I saw you as individuals in the brigade line when it was
  drawn up either for parade or battle. It is quite natural, therefore,
  and I trust it will not be held against me, that you should have a
  better recollection of my features than I can possibly have of yours.
  And yet some of you I recall and all of you I love. [Applause.] When
  you were associated in a brigade in 1862 we were all somewhat new to
  military duties and life. The officers as well as the men had come
  together animated by a common purpose from every pursuit in life. We
  were not so early in the field as some of our comrades. We yield them
  the honor of longer service, but I think we may claim for ourselves
  that when our hands were lifted to take the enlistment oath there was
  no inducement for any man to go into the army under any expectation
  that he was entering on a holiday. In the early days of the war men
  thought or hoped it would be brief. They did not measure its extent or
  duration. They did not at all rightly estimate the awful sacrifices
  that were to be made before peace with honor was assured.

  I well remember an incident of the early days of volunteering at
  Indianapolis, when the first companies in response to the first call
  of President Lincoln came hurrying to the capital. Among the first
  to arrive was one from Lafayette, under the command of Capt. Chris.
  Miller. They came in tumultuously and enthusiastic for the fight.
  These companies were organized into regiments, which one by one were
  sent into West Virginia or other fields of service. It happened that
  the regiment to which my friend Miller was assigned was the last to
  leave the State. I met him one day on the street, and a more mad and
  despondent soldier I never saw. He was not absolutely choice in the
  use of his language--all soldiers were not. I think the First Brigade
  was an exception. [Laughter.] He was swearing like a pirate over the
  disgrace that had befallen him and his associates, growing out of the
  fact that he was absolutely certain that the war would be over before
  they got into the field, and left in camp a stranded regiment, having
  no part in putting down the rebellion.

  Well, his day came presently, and he was ordered to West Virginia,
  and among the first of those who, under the fire of the enemy at Rich
  Mountain, received a bullet through his body was Capt. Chris. Miller.
  When these regiments of ours were enlisted we were not apprehensive
  that the war would be over before we had an adequate share of it. We
  were pretty certain we would all have enough before we were through.
  The clouds were dark in those days of '62. McClellan was shut up
  in the Peninsula; Buell was coming back from Alabama; Kirby Smith
  was entering through Cumberland Gap, and everything seemed to be
  discouraging. I think I may claim for these men of Illinois, and these
  men of Indiana and of Ohio--if some of them are here to meet with us
  to-day--that when they enlisted there was no other motive than pure,
  downright patriotism, and there was no misunderstanding of the serious
  import of the work on which they entered. [Applause.]

  Those early days in which we were being transformed from civilians
  into soldiers were full of trial and hardship. The officers were
  sometimes bumptious and unduly severe--I am entering a plea in my own
  behalf now. [Laughter.] The soldiers had not yet got to understand
  why a camp guard should be established, why they should not be at
  perfect liberty to go to town as they were when on the farm and the
  day's work was over. It was supposed that an army was composed of so
  many men, but we had not learned at that time that it was absolutely
  necessary that all those men should be at the same place at the same
  time, and that they could not be scattered over the neighborhood.
  There were a good many trials of that sort while the men were being
  made soldiers and the officers were learning their duties, and to know
  the proper margin between the due liberty of the individual and the
  necessary restraint of discipline. But those days were passed soon,
  and they passed the sooner when the men went into active duties. Camp
  duties were always irksome and troublesome, but when they were changed
  for the active duties of the march and field there was less need of
  restraint.

  I always noticed there was no great need of a camp guard after
  the boys had marched twenty-five miles. They did not need so much
  watching at night. Then the serious time came when sickness devastated
  us and disease swept its dread swath, and that dreadful progress of
  making soldiers was passed through when diseases which should have
  characterized childhood prostrated and destroyed men. Then there came
  out of all this, after the sifting out of those who were weak and
  incapable, of those who could not stand this acclimating process, that
  body of tough, strong men, ready for the march and fight, that made up
  the great armies which under Grant and Sherman and Sheridan carried
  the flag to triumph.

  The survivors of some of them are here to-day, and whatever else has
  come to us in life, whether honor or disappointment, I do not think
  there are any of us--not me, I am sure--who would to-day exchange the
  satisfaction, the heart comfort we have in having been a part of the
  great army that subdued the rebellion, that saved the country, the
  Constitution, and the flag. [Applause.] If I were asked to exchange it
  for any honor that has come to me, I would lay down any civil office
  rather than surrender the satisfaction I have in having been an humble
  partaker with you in that great war. [Applause.] Who shall measure it?
  Well, generations hence, when this country, which had 30,000,000, now
  64,000,000, has become 100,000,000, when these institutions of ours
  grow and develop and spread, and homes in which happiness and comfort
  have their abiding place, then we may begin to realize, North and
  South, what this work was. We but imperfectly see it now, yet we have
  seen enough of the glory of the Lord to fill our souls full of a quiet
  enthusiasm. [Applause.]

  Here we are pursuing our different works in life to-day just as when
  we stood on picket or on guard, just as in the front rank of battle
  facing the foe--trying to do our part for the country. I hope there
  is not a soldier here in whom the love of the flag has died out. I
  believe there is not one in whose heart it is not a growing passion.
  I think a great deal of the interest of the flag we see among the
  children is because you have taught them what the flag means. No one
  knows how beautiful it is when we see it displayed here on this quiet
  October day, amid these quiet autumnal scenes, who has not seen it
  when there was no other beautiful thing to look upon. [Applause.] And
  in those long, tiresome marches, in those hours of smoke and battle
  and darkness, what was there that was beautiful except the starry
  banner that floated over us? [Applause.]

  Our country has grown and developed and increased in riches until
  it is to-day marvellous among the nations of the earth, sweeping from
  sea to sea, embracing almost every climate, touching the tropics and
  the arctic, covering every form of product of the soil, developing in
  skill in the mechanical arts, developing, I trust and believe, not
  only in these material things which are great, but not the greatest,
  but developing also in those qualities of mind and heart, in morality,
  in the love of order, in sobriety, in respect for the law, in a
  God-fearing disposition among the people, in love for our country, in
  all these high and spiritual things. I believe the soldiers in their
  places have made a large contribution to all these things.

  The assembling of our great army was hardly so marvellous as
  its disbanding. In the olden time it was expected that a soldier
  would be a brawler when the campaign was over. He was too often a
  disturber. Those habits of violence which he had learned in the field
  followed him to his home. But how different it was in this war of
  ours. The army sprang into life as if by magic, on the call of the
  martyred President--Illinois' greatest gift, as I have said, to the
  Nation. They fought through the war, and they came out of it without
  demoralization. They returned to the very pursuits from which they had
  come. It seemed to one that it was like the wrapping of snow which
  nature sometimes puts over the earth in the winter season to protect
  and keep warm the vegetation which is hidden under it, and which
  under the warm days of spring melts and disappears, and settles into
  the earth to clothe it with verdure and beauty and harvest. [Great
  cheering.]


_Alumni Hall, Knox College._

After the public reception was concluded the President and party
participated in the laying of the corner-stone of the Alumni Hall
on the campus of Knox College. Dr. Newton Bateman, president of the
college, conducted the exercises. Prof. Milton L. Comstock read a brief
history of Knox College, at the conclusion of which Dr. Adams introduced
President Harrison, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Speaking this morning in the open air, which
  since my official isolation from campaigning has made my voice
  unaccustomed to it, will make it impossible for me to speak further
  at this time. I do not deem this ceremony at all out of accord with
  the patriotic impulses which have stirred our hearts to-day. Education
  was early in the thought of the framers of our Constitution as one of
  the best, if not the only guarantee of their perpetuation. Washington,
  as well as the founders of the venerable and useful institution,
  appreciated and expressed his interest in the establishment of
  institutions of learning. How shall one be a safe citizen when
  citizens are rulers who are not intelligent? How shall he understand
  those great questions which his suffrage must adjudge without thorough
  intellectual culture in his youth? We are here, then, to-day engaged
  in a patriotic work as we lay this corner-stone of an institution that
  has had a great career of usefulness in the past and is now entering
  upon a field of enlarged usefulness. We lay this corner-stone and
  rededicate this institution to truth, purity, loyalty, and a love of
  God.


_Phi Delta Theta Banquet._

In the evening the President attended a banquet tendered him by Lombard
and Knox chapters of Phi Delta Theta, of which college fraternity
General Harrison was a member in his student days. At the President's
table sat Toastmaster Lester L. Silliman, of Lombard Chapter, with
General Miles, Generals Grosvenor, Morgan, and Post, Mayor Stevens, Dr.
Ayres, and Rev. Dr. Hood. Brother Geo. W. Prince delivered the welcoming
address on behalf of the local chapters, to which the distinguished Phi
brother, President Harrison, arising amid great applause, responded.
After a few pleasant remarks regarding his recollections of college life
and his pleasure at meeting again with the members of the Phi Delta
Theta, he said:

  My college associations were broken early in life, partly by
  necessity and partly by choice; by necessity so far as the compulsion
  to work for a living was upon me, and by choice in that I added to my
  responsibility at an early date, so that it has not been my pleasure
  often to meet with or sit about the banquet board with members of this
  society. It gives me pleasure to meet with you to-night. I feel the
  greatest sympathy with these young men who are now disciplining their
  minds for the work of life. I would not have them make these days too
  serious, and yet they are very full of portent and promise. It is not
  inconsistent, I think, with the joyfulness and gladness which pertains
  to youth that they shall have some sense of the value of these golden
  days. They are days that are to affect the whole future. If I were to
  select a watchword that I would have every young man write above his
  door and on his heart, it would be that good word "Fidelity." I know
  of no better. The man who meets every obligation to the family, to
  society, to the State, to his country, and his God, to the very best
  measure of his strength and ability, cannot fail of that assurance and
  quietness that comes of a good conscience, and will seldom fail of the
  approval of his fellow-men, and will never fail of the reward which is
  promised to faithfulness. Unfaithfulness and lack of fidelity to duty,
  to work, and to obligation is the open door to all that is disgraceful
  and degrading.

  I want to thank you again, gentlemen, for this pleasant greeting,
  and to ask you, after the rather exhaustive duties of this day, to
  excuse me from further address and accept the best wishes of a brother
  in the Phi Delta Theta organization. [Cheers.]


_The Brigade Banquet._

Later in the evening the President and party attended a banquet given by
the citizens in honor of the First Brigade. It was a brilliant affair,
conducted by the ladies of the city, active among whom were Mrs. Geo.
Lescher, Miss Tillie Weeks, Miss Maude Stewart, Miss Winnie Hoover,
and Mrs. Whiffen. Mrs. George Gale had charge of the table of honor,
assisted by Mrs. Otto M. Smith and Miss Louise Tryon. Gen. Philip S.
Post was Master of Ceremonies and presented General Harrison.

The President prologued his parting words with an incident of a visit
he made to a small town down the Potomac. Although he was introduced
as President all over the town, no special attention was paid to him,
and when the local paper came out with a column and a half report of
the visit of the Chief Executive, the good people of the town were
astonished, but explained their lack of attention by saying they thought
Mr. Harrison was president of some fishing club. Aside from jokes, said
the President:

  One serious word in leaving. This day in Galesburg I shall long
  remember. The enthusiasm and the cordiality of the citizens, the
  delicacy and kindness of their attention, have impressed me deeply.
  I shall ever gratefully recollect Galesburg as a spot of especial
  interest, as the place of the meeting of the old brigade. Comrades,
  I hope to meet you again when my time is more my own, and on several
  occasions like this to speak to you more familiarly, and to recall
  this time. I have tried not to be stinted in my intercourse with you,
  for I have wanted you to feel me warm and sincere. I have expressed
  myself, but not as freely as I would if by ourselves, or if I were
  but a private citizen or member of the brigade. But I would say to
  you and all your families, to the wives that sit here, to the wives
  and children that are at home, to those who have gone out from your
  roof-tree to prepare homes, to your grand-children--and I hope all of
  you have them--to one and all, I extend the hearty sympathy and best
  wishes of the "old-timer" you served so faithfully.




OTTUMWA, IOWA, OCTOBER 9.


The President's party left Galesburg the night of the 8th, arriving
at Burlington at 10 o'clock, where about 8,000 people greeted them.
The President was escorted to the Commercial Club rooms, where Mayor
Duncan, on behalf of the city of Burlington, and P. M. Crapo, president
of the club, made addresses of welcome. A reception of one hour's
duration followed, during which President Harrison shook hands with
3,000 callers. Ottumwa was reached at 8 o'clock Thursday morning. A
committee of citizens, headed by Hon. J. G. Hutchison, met the President
at Galesburg. On arrival the President and his brother, John Scott
Harrison, were immediately driven to the residence of their sister, Mrs.
T. J. Devin, where they passed the morning.

At the Coal Palace the President and Secretary Tracy were met by Gov.
Horace Boies and his staff, headed by Adjt.-Gen Greene; also Senator
Wm. B. Allison, Senator James F. Wilson, ex-Senator Harlan, Hon. John
F. Lacey, and the following Committee of Reception, representing the
city of Ottumwa: T. J. Devin, W. T. Harper, J. E. Hawkins, W. B. Smith,
Henry Phillips, Sam'l A. Flager, J. C. Manchester, A. W. Johnson, W. T.
Fenton, J. G. Meek, Calvin Manning, Geo. Withall, J. W. Garner, J. J.
Smith, W. W. Epps, H. B. Hendershott, J. H. Merrill, W. B. Bonnifield,
A. H. Hamilton, C. F. Blake, John C. Fisher, Hon. John N. Irwin, J. T.
Hackworth, W. C. Wyman, John C. Jordan, A. G. Harrow, Allen Johnston,
T. D. Foster, J. W. Edgerly, A. W. Lee, William Daggett, G. H. Sheffer,
W. D. Elliott, Charles Bachman, H. A. Zangs, R. H. Moore, Capt. S. B.
Evans, Capt. S. H. Harper, H. W. Merrill, J. R. Burgess, J. B. Mowrey,
A. C. Leighton, W. S. Cripps, R. L. Tilton, Dr. L. J. Baker, D. A.
Emery, Samuel Mahon, W. S. Coen, O. C. Graves, Thomas Swords, and
John F. Henry. Other cities in Iowa were represented on the Reception
Committee by the following prominent citizens: Hon. John Craig, of
Keokuk; Judge Traverse and Senator Taylor, of Bloomfield; Gen. W. W.
Wright and Gen. F. M. Drake, Centerville; Gen. B. M. McFall, Oskaloosa;
T. B. Perry and J. H. Drake, Albia; Geo. D. Woodin and Hon. F. E. White,
Sigourney; Hon. Chas. D. Leggett and Chas. D. Fullen, Fairfield; Hon.
Edwin Manning and Capt. W. A. Duckworth, Keosauqua; F. R. Crocker
and E. A. Temple, Chariton; O. P. Wright, Knoxville; E. B. Woodruff,
Marion Co.; Col. Al. Swalm, Oskaloosa; Hon. W. P. Smith, Hon. Josiah
Given, Hon. Fred Lehman, G. W. Wright, Des Moines; Hon. John H. Gear,
Hon. John J. Seely, Burlington; Hon. F. C. Hormel, Capt. M. P. Mills,
Cedar Rapids; Hon. Geo. H. Spahr, Hon. W. I. Babb, Mt. Pleasant; Hon.
J. B. Grinnell, of Grinnell; Dr. Engle, Newton; Frank Letts and J. S.
McFarland, Marshalltown; Hon. J. B. Harsh and M. A. Robb, Creston;
ex-Governor Kirkwood and Ezekiel Clark, Iowa City.

The President and Governor Boies reviewed the parade from a stand
in the park. The column was led by the veterans of the famous Third
Iowa Cavalry. Three thousand school children participated in the
demonstration, which was witnessed by fully 40,000 spectators. The
public reception took place in the afternoon at the Coal Palace; the
great building was overflowing. Hon. P. G. Ballingall, President of the
Coal Palace Exposition, introduced Governor Boies, who welcomed the
President in behalf of the people of Iowa.

President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Governor Boies and Fellow-citizens_--I accept in the same cordial
  and friendly spirit in which they have been offered these words of
  welcome spoken on behalf of the good people of the great State of
  Iowa. It gives me pleasure in this hasty journey to pause for a
  little time in the city of Ottumwa. I have had especial pleasure in
  looking upon this structure and the exhibits which it contains. It is
  itself a proof of the enterprise, skill, and artistic taste of the
  people of this city of which they may justly be very proud. I look
  about it and see that its adornment has been wrought with materials
  that are familiar and common, and that these have assumed, under the
  deft fingers and artistic thoughts of your people, shapes of beauty
  that are marvellously attractive. If I should attempt to interpret
  the lesson of this structure, I should say it was an illustration of
  how much that is artistic and graceful is to be found in the common
  things of life; and if I should make an application of the lesson, it
  would be to suggest that we might profitably carry into all our homes
  and into all neighborly intercourse the same transforming spirit.
  The common things of this life, touched by a loving spirit, may be
  made to glow and glisten. The common intercourse of life, touched by
  friendliness and love, may be made to fill every home and neighborhood
  with a brightness that jewels cannot shed. And it is pleasant to think
  that in our American home-life we have reached this ideal in a degree
  unexcelled elsewhere.

  I believe that in the American home, whether in the city or on
  the farm, the American father and the American mother, in their
  relations to the children, are kinder, more helpful, and benignant
  than any others. [Cries of "Good! Good!" and cheers.] In these homes
  is the strength of our institutions. Let these be corrupted and
  the Government itself has lost the stone of strength upon which it
  securely rests.

(Here, by some accident of arrangement, the water of an artificial
waterfall immediately behind the President was turned on, and the rush
and roar of the water drowned his voice almost completely.)

  I have contended with a brass band while attempting to address a
  popular audience, but I have never before been asked to speak in the
  rush and roar of Niagara. [Laughter and cheers.] I think if I were to
  leave it to this audience whether they would rather see that beautiful
  display and hear the rippling of these waters [pointing] than to hear
  me, they would vote for the waterfall. [Cries of "No, no!" and "Shut
  off the water!"]

(At this point the management succeeded in finally turning off the water
so that the deafening noise ceased.)

  I had supposed that there were limitations upon the freedom of this
  meeting this afternoon, both as to the Governor and myself, and that
  no political suggestion of any sort was to be introduced into this
  friendly concourse of American citizens; and I think both of us have
  good cause for grievances against the prohibitionists for interrupting
  us with this argument for cold water. [Great laughter and applause.]

  It is quite difficult, called upon as I am every day, and
  sometimes three or four times a day, to make short addresses with
  the limitations that are upon me as to the subjects upon which I may
  speak, to know what to say when I meet my fellow-citizens. I was
  glad to hear the Governor say that Iowa is prosperous. We have here
  a witness that it is so. It offers also, I think, a solution of the
  origin of that prosperity, and suggests how it may be increased and
  developed. We have in this structure a display of all the products of
  the farm, and side by side with it a display of the mechanic arts. I
  think in this combination, in this diversity of interest and pursuit,
  in this mutual and helpful relation between the toilers of the soil
  and the workers in our shops, each contributing to the commonwealth
  and each giving to the other that which he needs, we have that which
  has brought about the prosperity you now enjoy, and which is to
  increase under the labors of your children to a degree that we have
  not realized. The progress in the mechanical arts that men not older
  than I have witnessed, the application of new agencies to the use of
  men within the years of my own notice and recollection, read like a
  fairy tale. Let us not think that we have reached the limits of this
  development. There are yet uses of the agencies already known to be
  developed and applied. There are yet agencies perhaps in the great
  storehouse of nature that have not been harnessed for the use of
  man. The telegraph, the telephone, and the phonograph have all come
  within the memory of many who stand about me to-day. The application
  of steam to ocean travel is within the memory of many here. The
  development of our railroad system has all come within your memory
  and mine. The railroad was but a feeble agency in commerce when
  my early recollection begins; and now this great State is covered
  with railroads like a network. Every farm is within easy reach of a
  shipping station, and every man can speak to his neighbor any day of
  the week, though that neighbor live on the opposite side of the globe.
  Out of all this what is yet to come? Who can tell? You are favored
  here in having not only a surface soil that yields richly to the labor
  of the farmer, but in also having hidden beneath that surface rich
  mines of coal which are to be converted into power to propel the mills
  that will supply the wants of your people.

  Now, my friends, thanking you for the kindness with which you have
  listened to me, expressing again my appreciation of the taste and
  beauty of this great structure in which we stand, and wishing for Iowa
  and all its citizens the largest increase of prosperity in material
  wealth, the most secure social order in all their communities, and the
  crowning blessing of home happiness, I bid you good-by. [Prolonged
  cheering.]




ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, OCTOBER 10.


The first reception in the State of Missouri took place at St. Joseph
at 6:30 the morning of October 10. Many thousands greeted the President
at the Union Depot. Conspicuous in the assemblage were the veterans of
Custer Post, G. A. R., who escorted the party to the neighboring hotel.
The Committee of Reception consisted of Col. A. C. Dawes, Chairman;
Mayor Wm. Shepard, Hon. John L. Bittinger, Capt Chas. F. Ernst, Capt. F.
M. Posegate, Col. N. P. Ogden, August Nunning, Wm. M. Wyeth, Major T. J.
Chew, Hon. Geo. J. Englehart, Hon. O. M. Spencer, Dr. J. D. Smith, James
McCord, ex-Gov. Silas Woodson, John M. Frazier, Frank M. Atkinson, Rev.
H. L. Foote, and Major Joseph Hansen.

Colonel Dawes made a brief welcoming address and presented the
President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--If you are glad to see me at this hour in the
  morning, if you are so kind and demonstrative before breakfast, how
  great would have been your welcome if I had come a little later in the
  day? [Applause.]

  I beg to thank you, who at an inconvenient and early hour, have
  turned out to speak these words of welcome to us as we pass through
  your beautiful city. Many years ago I read of St. Joseph. I know
  something of its history, when, instead of being a large city, it was
  a place for outfitting those slow and toilsome trains that bore the
  early pioneers toward California and the far West. Those days are not
  to be forgotten. Those means of communication were slow, but they
  bore men and women, full of courage and patriotism, to do for us on
  the Pacific and in the great West the work of peaceful conquest that
  has added greatly to the glory and prosperity of our country. And yet
  we congratulate ourselves that the swifter means of communication
  have taken the place of the old; we congratulate ourselves that these
  conveniences, both of business and social life, have come to crown
  our day. And yet in the midst of them, enjoying the luxuries which
  modern civilization brings to our doors, let us not lose from our
  households those plain and sturdy virtues which are essential to
  true American citizenship; let us remember always that above all
  surroundings, above all that is external, there is to be prized those
  solid and essential virtues that make home happy and that make our
  country great, and that enable us in every time of trial and necessity
  to call out from among the people some who are fit to lead our armies
  or to meet every emergency in the history of the State. We are here
  as American citizens, not as partisans; we are here as comrades of
  the late war, or, if there are here those who under the other banner
  fought for what seemed to them to be right, we are here to say one
  and all that God knew what was best for this country when he cast
  the issue in favor of the Union and the Constitution. [Applause and
  cheers.]

  Now, again united under its ample guarantee of personal liberty and
  public security, united again under one flag, we have started forward,
  if we are true to our obligations, upon a career of prosperity that
  would not otherwise have been possible. Let us therefore, in all
  kindliness and faithfulness, in devotion to the right, as God shall
  give us light to see it, go forward in the discharge of our duties,
  setting above everything else the flag and the Constitution on which
  all our rights and securities are based. Now, my comrades of the Grand
  Army of the Republic and fellow-citizens of Missouri, again I thank
  you and bid you good-by. [Cheers.]




ATCHISON, KANSAS, OCTOBER 10.


Entering Kansas the President was the recipient of a unique welcome at
Atchison, where 1,000 school children and several thousand citizens
greeted him. Little Edna Elizabeth Downs was the orator on behalf of the
children, and delivered a beautiful address, at the conclusion of which
the children showered the President with flowers.

The Mayor of Atchison, Hon. B. P. Waggener, and the following prominent
citizens welcomed the Chief Executive: Hon. John J. Ingalls, Hon.
Edward K. Blair, Hon. Clem Rohr, Hon. S. C. King, Hon. S. H. Kelsey,
Hon. John C. Tomlinson, Hon. A. J. Harwi, Hon. Henry Elleston, Hon. S.
R. Stevenson, Hon. C. W. Benning, Judge Rob't M. Eaton, ex-Gov. Geo.
W. Glick, Hon. H. C. Solomon, Judge A. G. Otis, Judge David Martin, L.
C. Challiss, E. W. Howe, David Auld, B. T. Davis, Chas. E. Faulkner,
Major W. H. Haskell, Major S. R. Washer, Capt. J. K. Fisher, Capt. David
Baker, Capt. John Seaton, Stanton Park, T. B. Gerow, and H. Claypark.
Chief-Justice Albert H. Horton made the welcoming address and introduced
President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I stand to-day for the first time upon the
  soil of Kansas. I am glad to have been permitted to enter it by the
  vestibule of this attractive city, the home of one of your most
  brilliant statesmen. I cannot refrain from saying, God be thanked
  that freedom won its early battle in Kansas. [Applause.] All this
  would have been otherwise impossible. You have a soil christened with
  the blood of men who died for liberty, and you have well maintained
  the lessons they taught, living and dying. It was appropriate that
  the survivors of the late war, men who came home crowned with the
  consummating victory of liberty, should make the State of Kansas
  pre-eminently the soldier State of the Union. Now, after telling you
  that I am very grateful for your friendly greeting this morning, you
  will, I am sure, excuse me, in this tumult, from attempting further
  speech. May every good attend you in your homes; may the career of
  this great State be one of unceasing prosperity in things material,
  and may your citizenship never forget that the spiritual things that
  take hold of liberty and human rights are higher and better than all
  material things. [Prolonged cheering.] Allow me now to present to you
  the only member of my Cabinet who accompanied me, General Tracy, of
  New York, the Secretary of the Navy.




TOPEKA, KANSAS, OCTOBER 10.


The President's reception at Topeka on Friday, October 10, was a
remarkable ovation; over 50,000 people from every county in the State
greeted him. The famous Seventh U. S. Cavalry, Gen. J. W. Forsythe
commanding, acted as the guard of honor. The President was welcomed by
Gov. Lyman U. Humphrey, Senator John J. Ingalls, Chief-Justice Albert
H. Horton, Mayor Robert L. Cofran, and the following distinguished
committee: Ex-Gov. Thomas A. Osborn, ex-Gov. Geo. T. Anthony, Capt.
Geo. R. Peck, Col. James Burgess, Hon. S. B. Bradford, Judge N. C.
McFarland, Judge John Martin, A. J. Arnold, John Guthrie, Wm. P.
Douthitt, John Mileham, William Sims, Cyrus K. Holliday, Perry G.
Noel, S. T. Howe, Bernard Kelly, J. Lee Knight, N. D. McGinley, Wm. H.
Rossington, Rev. Dr. F. S. McCabe, Geo. W. Reed, Elihu Holcomb, Lark
Odin, L. J. Webb, Milo B. Ward, J. K. Hudson, F. P. McLennan, H. O.
Garvey, Frank Root, John M. Bloss, John F. Gwinn, A. M. Fuller, J. W. F.
Hughes, John R. Peckham, James L. King, Henry Bennett, Geo. H. Evans,
M. C. Holman, John C. Gordon, H. P. Throop, Joseph R. Hankland, T. W.
Durham, Judge C. G. Foster, A. K. Rodgers, A. B. Jetmore, and Thomas F.
Oenes.

The parade was an imposing affair. Thirty thousand veterans were in
line. The Indiana contingent numbered over 1,000, and as they passed
the reviewing carriage, led by Major George Noble, cheer after cheer
was given in honor of the distinguished Hoosier. Nearly 6,000 school
children participated in the parade. In the afternoon the President
visited the reunion grounds with Commander Ira F. Collins and other
officers of the Kansas Department, G. A. R. Governor Humphrey delivered
the welcoming address.

The President responded as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I am strongly tempted to omit even an attempt
  to speak to you to-day; I think it would be better that I should go
  home and write you an open letter. [Great laughter and cheering.] I
  have been most profoundly impressed with the incidents which have
  attended this tremendous and, I am told, unprecedented gathering
  of the soldiers and citizens of the great State of Kansas. No one
  can interpret in speech the lessons of this occasion. No power of
  description is adequate to convey to those who have not looked upon
  it or into the spirit and power of this meeting. This assembly is
  altogether too large to be greeted individually--one cannot get his
  arms around it. [Laughter and cheers.] And yet so kindly have you
  received me that I would be glad if to each of you I could convey the
  sense of gratitude and appreciation which is in my heart. There is
  nothing for any of us to do but to open wide our hearts and let these
  elevating suggestions take possession of them. I am sure there has
  been nothing here to-day that does not point in the direction of a
  higher individual, social, State and national life. Who can look upon
  this vast array of soldiers who fought to a victorious consummation
  the war for the Union without bowing his head and his heart in
  grateful reverence? [Great applause.] Who can look upon these sons of
  veterans, springing from a patriotic ancestry, full of the spirit of
  '61, and coming into the vigor and strength of manhood to take up the
  burdens that we must soon lay down, and who, turning from these to the
  sweet-faced children whose hands are filled with flowers and flags,
  can fail to feel those institutions of liberty are secure for two
  generations at least? [Great cheering.] I never knew until to-day the
  extent of the injury which the State of Kansas had inflicted upon the
  State of Indiana [laughter and cheers]--never until I had looked upon
  that long line of Indiana soldiers that you plucked from us when the
  war was over by the superior inducement which your fields and cities
  offered to their ambitious toil. Indiana grieves for their loss, but
  rejoices in the homes and prosperity they have found here. [Cheers.]
  They are our proud contribution to the great development which this
  State has made. They are our proud contribution to that great national
  reputation which your State has established as the friend as well as
  one of the bulwarks of liberty and law. [Cheers.] It was not unnatural
  that they, coming back from scenes where comrades had shed their blood
  for liberty, should choose to find homes in a State that had the
  baptism of martyrs' blood upon its infant brow. [Prolonged cheering.]
  The future is safe if we are but true to ourselves, true to these
  children whose instruction is committed to us. There is no other foe
  that can at all obstruct or hinder our onward progress except treason
  in our own midst--treachery to the great fundamental principle of our
  Government, which is obedience to the law. The law, the will of the
  majority expressed in orderly, constitutional methods, is the only
  king to which we bow. But to him all must bow. Let it be understood
  in all your communities that no selfish interest of the individual,
  no class interests, however entrenched, shall be permitted to assert
  their convenience against the law. This is good American doctrine,
  and if it can be made to prevail in all the States of the Union until
  every man, secure under the law in his own right, is compelled by the
  law to yield to every other man his rights, nothing can shake our
  repose. [Cheers.]

  Now, fellow-citizens, you will excuse me from the attempt at further
  speech. I beg you again to believe that I am grateful, so far as
  your presence here has any personal reference to myself--grateful as
  a public officer for this evidence of your love and affection for the
  Constitution and the country which we all love. [Great applause.]

  There is some grumbling in Kansas, and I think it is because your
  advantages are too great. [Laughter.] A single year of disappointment
  in agricultural returns should not make you despair of the future or
  tempt you to unsafe expedients. Life is made up of averages, and I
  think yours will show a good average. Let us look forward with hope,
  with courage, fidelity, thrift, patience, good neighborly hearts, and
  a patriotic love for the flag. Kansas and her people have an assured
  and happy future. [Prolonged cheers.]




NORTONVILLE, KANSAS, OCTOBER 10.


At Nortonville the citizens, and especially the school children, turned
out _en masse_ and gave the President the heartiest of welcomes. Among
the prominent residents who participated in the greeting were Hon. A. J.
Perry, S. P. Griffin, Thomas Eckles, C. C. McCarthy, Dr. D. T. Brown, L.
P. King, D. A. Ellsworth, O. U. Babcock, Dr. R. D. Webb, J. G. Roberts,
W. T. Eckles, Harry Ellison, Rev. T. Hood, and M. Crowberger. On behalf
of the school children a little girl climbed the steps and presented the
Chief Magistrate with an armful of beautiful bouquets, for which she
received a hearty kiss.

Governor Humphrey introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--This brief stop forbids that I should say
  anything more than thank you and to extend to you all my most
  friendly greeting. The sky is overcast, but in this assemblage of
  your school children, with flags and flowers, and in this gathering
  of the sturdy men who have made Kansas great among States, there are
  suggestions that spread a sky of beauty and hope above our country
  and its destiny. It gives me great pleasure to make this first visit
  to Kansas. It gives me great pleasure to see both at Atchison and
  here the interest which the presence of these children shows you
  take in public education. There are many here who in their early
  days experienced the hardships and privations of pioneer life. The
  avenues of learning were shut against them, but it is much to their
  credit that what they lacked in early life, the impediments which have
  burdened their careers, they have bravely resolved shall not burden
  their children. I thank you again for this pleasant reception, and I
  bid you good-by, as we proceed on our journey.




VALLEY FALLS, KANSAS, OCTOBER 10.


At Valley Falls, Kan., another large crowd was assembled. The President
was welcomed by Mayor A. D. Kendall, Dr. A. M. Cowan, R. H. Crosby, M.
M. Maxwell, Dr. Frank Swallow, Mrs. J. H. Murry, Miss L. M. Ring, and
other prominent residents. Mrs. Dr. Cowan, on behalf of the ladies,
presented General Harrison with a basket of flowers.

In response to the enthusiastic greetings the President said:

  _My Friends_--I thank you sincerely for this cordial reception. I
  will not attempt any speech further than to say that this greeting
  puts me, if possible, under still stronger obligations in every
  official duty that devolves upon me to consult the interests of the
  people and do that which seems to be most promotive of public good.
  [Cheers.]




LAWRENCE, KANSAS, OCTOBER 10.


The historic city of Lawrence was reached at 4:40 o'clock, where the
cheers of an immense multitude, including a battalion from Haskell
Institute, welcomed the President. The Reception Committee consisted of
Mayor A. Henley, George Innis, W. H. Whitney, Gov. Chas. Robinson, Gen.
J. N. Roberts, and E. F. Goodrich. The veterans of Washington Post, G.
A. R., Gen. H. S. Hall, Commander, were present in a body.

Mayor Henley, in the name of the city, welcomed the President, who,
responding, said:

  _My Friends_--I am sure you are kind, and the greatest kindness you
  can do me is not to ask me to attempt to speak again so recently after
  attempting at Topeka to talk to all the rest of the people in Kansas
  [laughter] who are not here. I supposed until the train pulled into
  this city that the entire citizenship of the State was in the immense
  crowd congregated at Topeka to-day. My voice was so strained in
  attempting to speak there that I will only say to you that it gives me
  great pleasure to see you and to speak to you, even for a moment, at
  this hospitable town. All the inspiration connected with the story of
  the early history of Kansas clusters around the city of Lawrence. I am
  sure you will find in that story inspiration and suggestion that will
  keep the cause of liberty ever near to your hearts. [Great applause.]




KANSAS CITY, OCTOBER 10.


The presidential party reached Kansas City at 5:30 P.M. Friday, where
a grand reception was tendered the Chief Executive. The Committee
of Reception, representing the municipality and business interests,
comprised the following prominent citizens, who escorted the President
from Topeka: Mayor Benjamin Holmes, Witten McDonald, J. C. James, Joseph
Speyer, Judge C. L. Dobson, Col. M. J. Payne, W. S. Woods, Hon. E. H.
Allen, F. L. Kaufman, M. E. Lawrence, Joseph Cahn, Col. T. B. Bullene,
Col. E. H. Phelps, Col. J. F. Richards, George R. Barse, Major William
Warner, William Taylor, Col. Louis Hammerslough, E. C. Sattley, J. H.
Fink, Col. W. A. Wilson, Marshal Tracy, F. B. Nofsinger, Collector
Devol, Surveyor Guffin, Dr. F. W. Schulte, W. T. Urie, G. S. Hampton, J.
H. Smith, M. D. Henderson, H. J. Rosecrans, R. M. Easley, H. C. Fike,
B. S. Flersheim, Wm. Barton, H. J. Long, E. M. Clendening, T. James,
James M. Coburn, L. E. Irwin, C. L. Valandingham, G. W. Hollinger, E. E.
Richardson, E. M. Wilcox, J. M. Cooper, W. H. Bundage, M. H. Dickerson,
C. A. Brockett, S. A. Pierce, J. H. Neff, S. R. Hudson, A. H. Moffitt,
S. B. Stokely, P. L. Whipple, J. W. Merrill, D. G. Saunders, F. W.
Hatch, G. Bernheimer, B. C. Burgess, S. T. Smith, and J. L. Walker.

An enormous crowd greeted the President as he was driven to the Coates
House, where the distinguished party were entertained at dinner by Mayor
Holmes, ex-Governor Crittenden, Mayor W. A. Coy, of Kansas City, Kan.;
Gov. A. J. Smith, of the Soldiers' Home at Leavenworth; Hon. John Scott
Harrison--the President's brother--and other leading citizens.

In response to a toast to the President's health, General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen_--I am sorry to cause even this temporary interruption by
  leaving the banquet, but I am sure you will all appreciate the desire
  I have to spend a few minutes under my brother's roof in your city,
  and will therefore excuse me. Let me say that I very much appreciate
  the friendly and hospitable spirit of the business men of Kansas
  City, to whom I am indebted for this banquet and reception. It has
  never been my pleasure before to visit your city, but it has been
  well advertised, and I have heard of it frequently. [Laughter and
  applause.] So far as I could tell by the dim light of the evening in
  riding through the city, it realizes fully my expectations in growth
  and prosperity. [Applause.] Let me say, in conclusion, that I hope all
  your dreams for Kansas City may be realized. [Great applause.]

After passing the evening at his brother's residence, at 8 P.M. the
President was escorted by 300 members of the Third Regiment and a
cavalry guard, commanded by Col. Milton Moore, to the Chamber of
Commerce, where an informal reception was held.

Major William Warner introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow citizens_--I will not attempt to say more than that I
  am very grateful to you for your kindness, for this cordial, genuine
  Kansas City welcome. [Cheers.] The arrangements which have been made,
  and which are intended to give me an opportunity to meet some of you
  personally, and the early hour at which we are to take the train for
  St. Louis, make it inappropriate that I should attempt to speak at
  any length. I thank you again for your kindness, and will now submit
  myself to such arrangements as the committee have made to spend the
  little time I have to spend with you. [Cheers.]




ST. LOUIS, OCTOBER 11.


The President arrived in St. Louis at 9:30 in the morning and received
a royal welcome. As he drove through the city amid the roar of cannon,
it is estimated that fully 200,000 people greeted him, and his journey
partook of a triumph. The committee of escort that met the President at
Kansas City consisted of ex-Gov. E. O. Stanard, Col. S. W. Fordyce, Hon.
R. C. Kerens, and Marcus Bernheimer. The guard of honor was a detail
from the Grand Army, commanded by Major Leo Rassieur.

The President was met on arrival by the following distinguished
Committee of Reception: His Honor, Mayor Noonan, D. M. Houser, Geo. D.
Reynolds, R. M. Scruggs, Nelson Cole, Col. James G. Butler, Col. J. O.
Churchill, Daniel Catlin, Wm. M. Senter, John Orrick, John S. Moffett,
S. Newman, D. P. Rowland, John J. Daly, A. B. Ewing, Miles Sells,
John Dillon, Professor Waterhouse, Frank Buchanan, John B. Harlow,
Marquand Foster, Philip Brockman, Wm. Grassmuck, Chas. Scudder, John
J. O'Brien, T. J. Cummings, John H. Terry, J. S. Finkenbauer, C. J.
Hanabrinck, L. Bohle, O. M. Dean, John M. Sellers, James Green, Dr.
Thomas O'Reilly, Samuel Kennard, O. M. Haye, John A. Scudder, H. L.
Morrill, S. H. H. Clark, John Scullen, C. C. Maffitt, Joseph Franklin,
Hon. F. G. Niedringhaus, Hon. Nathan Frank, W. M. Kinsey, E. S. Rowse,
Geo. D. Barnard, J. L. Boland, D. H. King, C. P. Walbridge, B. F.
Harnett, Geo. Taylor, R. P. Tansey, A. S. White, F. A. Wann, M. M.
Bodenheimer, W. A. Hargadine, George A. Baker, John N. Booth, Geo. W.
Parker, J. D. Thompson, George A. Medill, E. C. Simmons, Edwin C. Kehr,
G. A. Finkelnburg, Marcus Bernheimer, L. Beavis, Charles F. Joy, Henry
Hitchcock, Wm. H. Thompson, W. F. Niedringhaus, Charles Espenschied, A.
B. Goodbaugh, Jonathan Rice, Jacob Meyer, Goodman King, D. C. Nugent,
John Davis, J. D. Bascom, R. W. Shapleigh, Edgar D. Tilton, John C.
Wilkinson, D. D. Walker, Frederick Vaughn, E. F. Williams, J. H. Wear,
C. D. Comfort, C. C. Rainwater, F. W. Humphrey, Michael McGinnis, John
Wahl, W. L. Hughes, and Thomas H. West.

After reviewing the parade from the balcony of the Southern Hotel the
President and Secretary Tracy visited the Merchants' Exchange and
were tendered a reception by the business men of the city. Mr. Marcus
Bernheimer, President of the Exchange, occupied the presiding chair and
introduced Gov. D. R. Francis, who, in an eloquent address, welcomed
the President in the name of the people of Missouri. The Governor was
followed by Hon. Edward A. Noonan, Mayor of St. Louis, who extended a
"sincere and hearty greeting," on behalf of the residents of the city.

Hon. Charles Parsons then introduced the President, who addressed the
assemblage as follows:

  _Governor Francis, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens_--It is very
  grateful and very healthful to be so cordially received by you this
  morning. The office which I have been called upon to administer
  is very great in dignity, but it is very full of care and heavy
  responsibility. The man who with conscientious regard and a proper
  appreciation of the great trust seeks to administer it for the public
  good will find himself daily beset with perplexities and doubts,
  and daily besieged by those who differ with him as to the public
  administration. But it is a great comfort to know that we have an
  intelligent, thoughtful, and, at the same time, a very kind people,
  who judge benevolently and kindly the acts of those public servants
  of whose good disposition to do right they are not left in doubt. And
  it is very pleasant to know--and I do not need these eloquent words
  of assurance to have already impressed upon me--the great lesson that
  there are more things in which we agree and have common interests
  than in which we differ. But our differences of opinion as to public
  administration are all brought together in a genuine patriotism and
  love of country. [Applause]. It gives me pleasure to witness since
  my last visit to St. Louis evidence of that steady and uninterrupted
  growth which this great commercial centre has made since its birth as
  an Indian trading-post on the Mississippi. No year has been without
  its added evidences of progress, development, accumulation of wealth,
  and increase in population. You have now passed any period of doubt or
  uncertainty, and the career of St. Louis is assured. You have grown
  like the oak, annually adding a ring to the prosperity and wealth and
  commercial importance of your great city. You have struck the roots
  of your influence broad and deep into the nourishing earth of this
  great fertile land in which you have lived; and the branches--the
  high branches of your enterprise--are reaching toward the sunlight
  that shines upon them. You are situated upon the Mississippi River,
  giving you water communication with the sea, a communication which
  this Government has undertaken to improve and secure, and which I
  believe will be made secure by appropriate legislation. [Applause.]
  Nor do I know any reason why these great lines of railway stretching
  from St. Louis to the Southwest may not yet touch great ports of
  commerce, deep harbors, until they shall become trunk lines. We have
  come to regard only these lines of railway communication to eastern
  seaboards as trunk lines. I do not know why. Indeed, I believe that in
  the future, when we shall have seized again, as we will seize if we
  are true to ourselves, our own fair part of commerce upon the sea, and
  when we shall have again our appropriate share of South American trade
  [cheers], that these railroads from St. Louis, touching deep harbors
  on the gulf, and communicating there with lines of steamships, shall
  touch the ports of South America and bring their tribute to you. You
  shall in all these things find a special interest, but an interest
  that will be shared, as all great interests are, by the Nation and
  people, of which you are a loyal and enterprising part. And now, my
  friends, again let me thank you, and all those who have spoken in your
  behalf, for these friendly words. These great industries of commerce
  and manufactures here are entwined in friendly helpfulness. As they
  are diversified your prosperity is increased; but under them all,
  as the only secure rock upon which they can rest, is social order
  and obedience to the law. Let it never be forgotten anywhere that
  commerce builds only upon social order. Be watchful and careful of
  every instrumentality or suggestion which puts itself against the law.
  Where the law is wrong make it right. [Cries of "Good!" and cheering.]
  Let that be the one rule of conduct in the public relations of every
  American citizen. And now, my friends, again let me say thank you and
  good-by.

At the conclusion of the reception on 'Change the President, escorted
by the Committee of Reception, visited the Fair Grounds and attended
a banquet in his honor at the Jockey Club House. In the evening the
distinguished guests visited the Exposition, where a tremendous crowd
gathered. As the President entered Music Hall, Gilmore's famous band
struck up "Hail to the Chief." The great audience stood and called
repeatedly for a speech. The President arose in his box and bowed
several times; but there was no denying their demands, and Governor
Francis finally introduced his excellency, who said:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--I have sometimes thought that the life of
  the President of the United States is like that of the policeman in
  the opera--not a happy one. So many cares strew his path, so many
  people's welfare is to be considered, that wiser heads than mine may
  well be puzzled. The attention of this mighty audience to-night has
  been distracted from the concert by my entrance, not withstanding the
  fact that it has a leader more a master of his art than any other on
  the continent. I did not, nor do I desire to make a speech to-night.
  But as I have always declared myself in favor of the rule of the
  majority, I feel compelled to do so.

  From early morn till late this evening the day has been one of
  unalloyed pleasure to me. Every possible courtesy has been shown our
  party, and we have gathered, I assure you, a most high opinion of your
  people and your city. This building is in every way a credit to St.
  Louis, the metropolis of the Southwest, and its exhibits do credit to
  the merchants and manufacturers represented. I am glad to see that the
  higher arts go hand-in-hand with mechanics. Art, music, poetry, and
  song should not be separated from the homes of the poor, and such an
  institution as this cannot fail to instil all that is good into the
  hearts of every one. Before I close let me tell you all how grateful
  and how complimented I feel at my hearty reception in your midst. I
  shall always recall this day with happy remembrance. Now, won't you
  crown the great courtesies of the day by allowing me to end my speech?
  [Applause.]




ANDERSON, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13.


President Harrison passed the Sabbath quietly at his Indianapolis
residence, and early Monday morning, accompanied by Secretary Tracy and
Marshal Ransdell, started for Washington.

The first stop was at Pendleton, where the President shook hands with
quite a crowd. Anderson, the county seat of Madison County, was reached
at 7:10, and a large concourse of people greeted the travellers. The
President was received by Hon. Winfield T. Durbin, Chas. T. Doxey, W. A.
Kittinger, John F. McClure, Caleb Brown, Jacob Koehler, Francis Watkins,
A. A. Small, and other leading citizens. Mayor Terhune, in a patriotic
address, presented the Chief Executive.

After acknowledging the cordial greeting, the President spoke of the
rapid industrial development of that section consequent upon the
discovery and development of natural gas, and predicted a fine future
for the county. Concluding, he said:

  I am here to-day, returning to my duties at Washington from a trip
  taken to meet some of my old comrades during the war. There are some
  here this morning. I bid them God-speed; I give them a comrade's
  greeting; and to you, my old-time friends, not in politics, but in
  that pride and association which makes us all Indianians--we are
  all proud of our State and proud of our communities--I desire to
  say that while I have friends elsewhere, these were my earliest
  friends--friends of my boyhood almost, for I was scarcely more than
  a boy when I became a citizen of this State, and I always turn to it
  with affectionate interest. [Cheers.]




MUNCIE, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13.


At Muncie the assemblage was very large, numbering over 10,000, and the
President received the most vociferous greeting of the day. Here, as at
other points in the State, hundreds of General Harrison's old friends
crowded forth to welcome him and bid him God-speed. Prominent among
these were: Hon. Frank Ellis, Mayor of the city; Hon. M. C. Smith, Hon.
John C. Eiler, Hon. Fred W. Heath, Hon. W. W. Orr, Hon. O. N. Cranor,
Hon. Geo. W. Cromer, Judge O. J. Lotz, Dr. G. W. H. Kemper, Dr. Thos.
J. Bowles, Dr. A. B. Bradbury, A. L. Kerwood, Geo. L. Lenon, F. E.
Putnam, Thos. H. Kirby, Charles H. Anthony, D. H. H. Shewmaker, Theodore
F. Rose, N. N. Spence, Chas. M. Kimbrough, Webster S. Richey, Thos. L.
Zook, John T. Watterhouse, J. W. Ream, C. E. Jones, and R. I. Patterson.
Mayor Ellis delivered a brief welcoming address and introduced the
President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have known this beautiful city of yours and
  many of the people of this prosperous county for more than thirty
  years. I have known in a general way the development of your interests
  by almost yearly visits to the city of Muncie, but it seems to me that
  in these two years I have been out of the State you have made more
  progress than in any ten years when I was in the State. [Cheers.] I
  think it was in the year 1886, when I spent a night in Muncie, that
  my attention was drawn by some of your citizens, as darkness settled
  down, to a remarkable and what was then thought to be chiefly a
  curious red glow in your horizon. It was, if I recollect aright, about
  the earliest development of natural gas in Indiana, and the extent of
  this great field was wholly unknown. How rapidly events have crowded
  each other since! You have delved into the earth and have found the
  supply of this most adaptable and extraordinary fuel inexhaustible;
  and what has it done for you? No longer are you transporting coal from
  the distant mines to feed your furnaces. No longer are you sending the
  choppers into the woods to cut your trees and haul them in, that they
  may bring you winter heat and fuel. The factories have been coming
  to you. This convenient heat and serviceable fuel is found in the
  humblest home in Muncie. How it has added to your comfort only those
  who have used it know. How much it has added to your prosperity and
  development of manufactures here you have only begun to know. [Cheers.]

  The sunlight will not more surely shed its beams on us this morning
  than this great tide of prosperity which has set in through this gas
  belt in Indiana shall go on increasing until all these cities and
  towns within its radius are full of busy men and humming machinery.
  What does all this mean? It means employment for men. It means happy
  and comfortable homes for an increasing population. It means an
  increased home market for the products of your farm. It means that
  the farmer will have a choice of crops, and will have consumers for
  perishable products of his farm at his very door. It means, if you
  preserve the order of your community, if this good county of Delaware
  continues to maintain its reputation as a law-abiding, liberty-loving,
  free-school-loving population [cheers], that you shall have a
  prosperity--an increase of riches and of human comfort that we have
  scarcely conceived.

  And now, my friends, all over this, and above all this, and better
  than it all, let us keep in mind those higher things that make our
  country great. I do not forget that your good county sent to the war
  of the Union, in the gallant regiments that went from this State, a
  multitude of brave men to stand by the flag. [Cheers.] Some of them
  are with you to-day. [Applause.] Now let that love of the flag be
  still uppermost in your hearts. Nothing has pleased me more as I
  passed through some of our Western States than to see that the school
  children everywhere had the starry flag in their hands. [Cheers.] Let
  it be so here and everywhere. Let them learn to love it, to know its
  beauty, in order that when the time of peril comes they may be ready
  to defend it. [Applause.] Now to these friends, I am most grateful for
  your appreciative kindness, and if I shall be able, in the discharge
  of high and difficult duties, to maintain the respect and confidence
  of my fellow-citizens of Indiana, other things will take care of
  themselves.




WINCHESTER, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13.


Winchester's greeting was of the most cordial character; a large share
of the population of Randolph County seemed to have turned out to do
the President honor. Among the prominent citizens participating were:
Leander J. Monks, Albert O. Marsh, Martin B. Miller, C. W. Moore, Dennis
Kelley, W. R. Way, W. E. Miller, T. F. Moorman, Albert Canfield, John
R. Engle, A. C. Beeson, E. L. Watson, Thos. S. Gordon, H. P. Kizer, J.
E. Watson, John T. Chenoweth, W. H. Reinheimer, B. Hawthorne, and B. W.
Simmons.

Gen. Thomas M. Browne, on behalf of the citizens, delivered an eloquent
address of welcome, and closed by introducing President Harrison, who
said:

  _My Friends_--It gives me great pleasure to hear from the lips of
  your honored fellow-citizen, my old-time army comrade, these words of
  welcome, spoken in your behalf. I thank you and him for his assurance
  that your assembling here together is without regard to difference
  in belief, and as American citizens having common interests and a
  common love for the flag and the Constitution. Now, to these good
  people of Randolph County I render this morning my sincere thanks
  for their hearty and cordial welcome. No public servant, in whatever
  station, can ever be indifferent to the good esteem of men and women
  and children like these. You do not know how much these kindly faces,
  these friendly Indiana greetings, help me in the discharge of duties
  that are not always easy.

  I bid you good-by and God-speed. I do wish for Indiana and all her
  people the greatest happiness that God can give. [Prolonged cheers.]




UNION CITY, INDIANA, OCTOBER 13.


The President found another great crowd awaiting him at Union City,
including several hundred school children, each waving a flag. Between
rows of children he was escorted to the park near the station by a
committee consisting of Hon. Theo. Shockney, B. F. Coddington, J. S.
Reeves, and Geo. W. Patchell. Arrived at the park he was met by James
B. Ross, S. R. Bell, L. C. Huesman, J. F. Rubey, W. S. Ensign, L. D.
Lambert, J. B. Montani, C. S. Hardy, J. C. Platt, Judge J. W. Williams,
R. G. Clark, H. H. Le Fever, H. D. Grahs, Chas. Hook, and other
prominent citizens. Senator Shockney made the welcoming address. The
President, responding, said:

  _Senator Shockney and Fellow-citizens_--The conditions are not such
  here that I can hope to make many of you hear the few words that
  it is possible for me to speak to you. I have found myself in this
  tour through these Western States, undertaken for the purpose of
  meeting some of my comrades of the late war, who had invited me to
  be with them at their annual gatherings, repeating the words "Thank
  you" everywhere. I have felt how inadequate this word or any other
  word was to express the sense of gratitude I should feel to these
  friendly fellow-citizens who everywhere greeted me with kind words and
  kinder faces. I feel very grateful to see you, and to realize that
  if there are any fault-finders, sometimes with reason, and sometimes
  without, that the great body of our people are interested only in good
  government, in good administration, and that the offices shall be
  filled by men who understand that they are the servants of the people,
  and who serve them faithfully and well. If it were not so a President
  would despair. Great as the Government is, vast as is our civil list,
  it is wholly inadequate to satisfy the reasonable demands of men, and
  so, from disappointment, reasonable or unreasonable, we turn with
  confidence and receive with encouragement these kindly greetings from
  the toilers of the country--the men and women who only ask from the
  Government that it shall protect them in their lives, their property,
  and their homes; that it shall encourage education, provide for these
  sweet young children, so that they shall have an easier road in life
  than their fathers had, and that there shall be an absence of corrupt
  intent or act in the administration of public business.

  And now, standing on the line which divides these two States,
  the one for which I have the regard every man should feel for his
  birthplace, and the other to which I owe everything I have received
  in civil life or public honor, I beg to call your attention to the
  fact how little State lines have to do with American life. Some of
  you pay your taxes on that side of the line, some on this, but in
  your intercourse, business, and social ties you cross this line
  unknowingly. Above both and greater than both--above the just pride
  which Ohioans have in that noble State, and above the just pride which
  we have in Indiana--there floats this banner that is the common banner
  of us all. We are one in citizenship; we are one in devotion to the
  Government, which makes the existence of States possible and their
  destruction impossible. [Cheers.] And now, to these children, to my
  Grand Army friends, and to these old citizens, many of whom I have
  met under other conditions, I beg to say God bless you every one, and
  good-by.




DE GRAFF, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


Crossing the Ohio line a short stop was made at Sidney, where the
President shook hands and received a delegation from Bellefontaine
headed by Judge Wm. Lawrence. At De Graff the President met with a
cordial reception, especially from the school children. He was welcomed
by ex-Mayor H. P. Runyon, Dr. W. W. Hamer, Dr. W. H. Hinkle, W. E.
Haris, G. W. Harnish, John F. Rexer, Dr. F. M. Galer, Dr. Wm. Hance, R.
O. Bigley, D. S. Spellman, D. W. Koch, Benjamin Bunker, W. H. Valentine,
J. W. Strayer, and S. E. Loffer.

Superintendent of Schools Joseph Swisher introduced the President, who
said:

  _My Friends_--I am very glad to see you all, and especially these
  dear young children. I have been passing through a country glorious
  in the autumnal tints which make a landscape that can be seen nowhere
  else in the world, and yet I turn always from these decaying glories
  of nature with great delight to look into the bright faces of these
  happy children, where I see a greater, because immortal, glory. I
  thank them for their presence here this morning. I wish their lives
  may be as sunny and bright through manhood and through womanhood,
  finding happiness in usefulness. I wish I had time to shake hands with
  you all. [Cheers.]




BELLEFONTAINE, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


Bellefontaine accorded the President an enthusiastic welcome. The
Committee of Reception consisted of Dr. A. L. Wright, Mayor of the
city; Judge William Lawrence, Judge West, Judge Price, J. C. Brand, D.
Hennesy, Geo. W. Emerson, Aaron Gross, A. C. Elliott, A. E. Griffen, H.
J. King, J. E. West, I. N. Zearing, and J. Q. A. Campbell.

Mayor Wright delivered a brief welcoming address and introduced the
President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I wish all of you could have seen what I have
  seen in this extended but hasty visit through some of the great States
  of the central West, the broader view which we get as we journey
  through this country of the capabilities of its soil, of the beauties
  of its landscape, of the happiness of its homes, but, above all, of
  the sturdy manhood of its people, can but be useful to every public
  man and every patriot. [Applause.] No one can make such a journey
  as we have and look into the faces of hundreds of thousands of his
  fellow-citizens and see how here in Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Iowa,
  Kansas, and Missouri they are everywhere characterized by a sturdy
  independence and intelligent thoughtfulness and manhood, and doubt
  the future of this country of which they are citizens. Nothing can
  shake its repose as long as this great mass of people in these homes,
  on these farms, in these shops and city dwelling-places are true to
  themselves and to their children. Not every one can hope to reach the
  maximum of human wealth or enjoyment, but nowhere else is there so
  general a diffusion of human comfort and the conveniences of life as
  in this land of ours. You must not, then, show unthankfulness to the
  framers of our great Constitution or to God by indulging in gloomy
  forebodings or in unreasonable complaint. He has not promised that
  everywhere and every season the fields should give full returns. He
  has promised that the food of man should not fail, and where else
  is famine unknown? Other countries have now and then appealed for
  philanthropic help from abroad to feed their population, greater or
  less. The United States has always a surplus after its people are fed,
  and for this we should be thankful. I have been told everywhere that
  though crops in some respects and in some places have been short, the
  general prosperity is very great. Everywhere I have been told that no
  wheel is idle, and that no hand is idle that seeks employment that
  honest bread may come to his household. I believe that we are on an
  upward grade of prosperity, if we will be brave and hopeful and true,
  that shall lead us perhaps to a development and an increase of wealth
  we have never before attained. And now, my fellow-citizens, thanking
  you for this friendly morning greeting, I bid you good-by. [Applause.]
  Let me have the pleasure, however, of introducing to you my valued
  associate at Washington--Secretary Tracy. [Applause.]




CRESTLINE, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


The people of Crestline honored the President with a large assembly,
prominent among whom were: Mayor P. W. Pool, Hon. Daniel Babst, John
G. Barney, Alexander Hall, B. F. Miller, John Whittle, John F. Castle,
C. F. Frank, Dr. W. P. Bennett, L. G. Russell, A. Howorth, G. B.
Thrailkill, E. S. Bagley, D. L. Zink, J. P. Davis, T. P. Kerr, W. R.
Boyd, E. W. Hadley, Samuel Gee, C. C. Hall, D. S. Patterson, and Richard
Youngblood.

Mayor Pool welcomed and introduced the President in a brief address.
General Harrison responded:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Already some seven or eight times this
  morning, beginning before breakfast, I have been called upon to talk
  briefly to my fellow-citizens who have gathered at the various points
  where we made brief stops at their request. The story I must tell
  you is the same old story I have been telling them--that I am very
  grateful for your friendly expressions and presence; very grateful for
  the kindliness which speaks through those who address me, and for the
  kindness which appears in all your faces. It is pleasant to know that
  as against all enemies of our country we are one, that we have great
  pride, just pride in our birthright as American citizens, just pride
  in the country of our adoption as to those who have found a home here
  with us. It is the people's land more than any other country in the
  world. Mr. Lincoln felicitously expressed it to be a "government of
  the people, by the people, for the people." [Applause.] They originate
  it; they perpetuate it. If it does not miss its purpose it is
  administered for their good. [Applause.] And so to you upon whom the
  burden of citizenship now rests, you who have the care of these homes
  and the responsibilities of womanhood; to these lads who will soon be
  citizens, and to these girls who are coming on to womanhood, to all I
  express my thanks for your friendly greeting. [Applause.] To every one
  of you I wish the most abundant success; that every home represented
  here may be a typical American home, in which morality and purity and
  love sit as the crowning virtues and are household gods. Our country
  is prosperous, though not all have attained this year the measure of
  success which they had hoped for. If there was any shortness of crops
  anywhere, already the fields are green with the promise of another
  year. Let our hearts be hopeful, let us be faithful and true, and the
  future of our country and our own comfort are assured. [Cheers.]




MANSFIELD, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


At Mansfield, the home of Senator Sherman, a large assemblage greeted
the President, prominent among whom was the distinguished Senator, and
Hon. Henry C. Hedges, Frank W. Pierson, J. M. Waugh, Frank K. Tracy,
Maj. Joseph S. Hedges, Hon. W. S. Kerr, J. R. Brown, Nelson Ozier, Capt.
W. S. Bradford, Hon. W. S. Cappeller, Hon. W. M. Hahn, Capt. Joseph
Brown, G. U. Harn, Maj. W. W. Smith, Geo. C. Wise, Judge Jas. E. Lowry,
James McCoy, John Crum, Ried Carpenter, and Wm. C. Hedges, Jr.

Senator Sherman introduced the President, who spoke briefly, saying:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We stop so frequently upon this journey and
  our time at each station is so brief, that I cannot hope to say
  anything that would be interesting or instructive. I thank you most
  sincerely for these friendly manifestations. I am glad to be permitted
  to stop at the home of your distinguished Senator and my friend.
  [Cheers.] I am sure, however you may differ from him in political
  opinion, the people of Mansfield and of Ohio are proud of the eminence
  which he has attained in the counsels of the Nation and of the
  distinguished service he has been able to render to his country not
  only in Congress but in the Treasury Department. [Cheers.] He is twin
  in greatness with that military brother who led some of you, as he did
  me, in some of the great campaigns of the war, and they have together
  rendered conspicuous services to this country, which we, as they, love
  with devoted affection. We have so many common interests and so much
  genuine friendliness among the American people that except in the very
  heat and ardor of a political campaign the people are kind to each
  other, and we soon forget the rancor of these political debates. We
  ought never to forget that we are American citizens; we ought never to
  forget that we are put in charge of American interests, and that it
  is our duty to defend them. [Applause.] Thanking you again for your
  presence and kindliness, I bid you good-by. [Applause.]




WOOSTER, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


At Wooster, the seat of the well-known university, the presidential
party received a rousing greeting, especially from the students with
their college cry. At the head of the Committee of Reception was the
venerable Professor Stoddard, formerly professor of chemistry at Miami
University when Benjamin Harrison attended that institute. Among other
prominent townsmen who received the President were: Hon. M. L. Smyser,
Hon. A. S. McClure, Jacob Frick, Col. C. V. Hard, Capt. Harry McClarran,
Dr. John A. Gann, Dr. R. N. Warren, Capt. R. E. Eddy, Lieut. W. H.
Woodland, W. O. Beebe, Dr. J. D. Robison, Wm. Annat, John C. Hall, Enos
Pierson, R. J. Smith, Samuel Metzler, Geo. W. Reed, C. W. McClure, A. G.
Coover, A. M. Parish, Anthony Wright, Abram Plank, J. S. R. Overholt,
Jesse McClellan, David Nice, Andrew Branstetter, Charles Landam, Wm. F.
Kane, Capt. Lemuel Jeffries, Sylvester F. Scovel, D.D., O. A. Hills,
D.D., Jas. M. Quinby, R. W. Funck, and Harry Heuffstot.

Congressman Smyser introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--If anything could relieve the sense of
  weariness which is ordinarily incident to extended railroad travel,
  it would be the exceeding kindness with which we have been everywhere
  received by our fellow-citizens, and to look upon an audience like
  that assembled here, composed in part of venerable men who experienced
  the hardships of early life in Ohio, of some of those venerable women
  who shared those labors and self-denials of early life in the West,
  and in part of their sons, that gallant second generation, who, in the
  time of the Nation's peril in 1861, sprang to its defence and brought
  the flag home in honor [applause], and in part of these young men here
  undergoing that discipline of mind which is to fit them for useful
  American citizenship, full of the ambitions of early manhood, and, I
  trust, rooted in the principles of morality and loyalty [applause],
  and in part of these sweet-faced children, coming from your schools
  and homes to brighten with their presence this graver assembly. Where
  else in the world could such a gathering be assembled? Where else so
  much social order as here? The individual free to aspire and work,
  the community its own police officer and guardian.

  We are here as American citizens, having, first, duties to our
  families, then to our neighborhood--to the institutions and business
  with which we are connected--but above all, and through and by all
  these duties, to our country and to God, by whose beneficial guidance
  our Government was founded, by whose favor and protection it has
  been preserved. [Applause.] Friendly to all peoples of the world, we
  will not thwart their course or provoke quarrels by unfriendly acts,
  neither will we be forgetful of the fact that we are charged here
  first with the conservation and promotion of American interests, and
  that our Government was founded for its own citizenship. [Applause
  and cheers.] But I cannot speak at further length. I must hurry on to
  other places, where kind people are impatiently awaiting our coming,
  and to duties which will be assumed and undertaken with more courage
  since I have so often looked into the kind faces of the people whom
  I endeavor to serve. [Applause.] Let me present to you now, and I do
  so with great pleasure, one of the gentlemen called by me under the
  Constitution to assist in the administration of the Government--one
  whom I know you have learned to love and honor as you are now
  privileged to know--Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy, the Secretary of the Navy.
  [Cheers.]




ORRVILLE, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


At Orrville, Wayne County, it was not contemplated to stop; but so large
and enthusiastic was the crowd the President held a brief reception.
Among the prominent townsmen who welcomed him were: A. H. Walkey, S.
N. Coe, A. E. Clark, J. W. Hostetter, A. Dennison, N. S. Brice, D. J.
Luikheim, and John Trout.

In response to repeated cries of "speech," the President said:
"Fellow-citizens--The American people are very kind"--at this point the
train started, and the President closed abruptly by saying-"and I feel
sure that they will here excuse my failure to make a speech." There were
loud shouts of laughter at the President's readiness as the train pulled
out.




MASSILLON, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


At Massillon several thousand people assembled and great enthusiasm
prevailed. The Committee of Reception consisted of Hon. William M. Reed,
Mayor of the city; Prof. E. A. Jones, Hon. J. Walter McClymonds, Hon. S.
A. Conrad, William F. Ricks, Clement Russell, and Joseph Grapevine, Esq.
The Grand Army veterans and school children were present in force. Mayor
Reed made the welcoming address.

President Harrison, responding, said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--The burden of obligation connected
  with this visit is put upon me by the enthusiasm and magnitude of this
  welcome which you have extended to me. It gives me pleasure to stop
  for a brief moment in a city widely celebrated for its industries, and
  among a people widely celebrated for their virtues and intelligence.
  [Cheers.] It was especially gratifying as we passed in your suburbs,
  one of these busy hives of industry, to see upon the bank, waving
  with hearty cheers, the operatives in their work-day clothes. It is
  of great interest to know that you have these diversified industries
  among you. Your lot would be unhappy and not prosperous if you were
  all pursuing the same calling, even if it were the calling to which I
  belong, the profession of the law. [Laughter.]

  It is well that your interchanging industries and pursuits lean upon
  and help each other, increasing and making possible indeed the great
  prosperity which you enjoy. I hope it is true here that everybody is
  getting a fair return for his labor. We cannot afford in America to
  have any discontented classes, and if fair wages are paid for fair
  work we will have none. [Cheers.] I am not one of those who believe
  that cheapness is the highest good. I am not one of those who believe
  that it can be to my interest, or to yours, to purchase in the market
  anything below the price that pays to the men who make it fair living
  wages. [Great cheering.] We should all "live and let live" in this
  country. [Cheers.] Our strength, our promise for the future, our
  security for social happiness are in the contentment of the great
  masses who toil. It is in kindly intercourse and relationship between
  capital and labor, each having its appropriate increase, that we
  shall find the highest good, the capitalist and employer everywhere
  extending to those who work for human rights a kindly consideration
  with compensatory wages. [Cheers.]

  Now, to these children and Grand Army friends who greet me here, I
  say, thank you and God speed you and good-by. [Cheers.]




CANTON, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


Canton, the home of Hon. William McKinley, Jr., gave the President
a most cordial and clamorous greeting. The G. A. R. and other
organizations were out in full force. Among the leading citizens who
welcomed the Chief Executive were: W. K. Miller, W. L. Alexander, Judge
J. P. Fawcett, J. M. Campbell, Judge J. W. Underhill, Andrew D. Braden,
Col. J. E. Dougherty, Col. J. J. Clark, N. Holloway, and Capt. C. T.
Oldfield.

Major McKinley introduced the President, who addressed the large
assemblage, saying:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The inconvenience which you suffer to-day,
  and under which I labor in attempting to speak to you, comes from the
  fact that there are more of you here than can come within the range
  of my voice, but not more, I assure you, my fellow-citizens, than I
  can take and do take most hospitably in my regard. [Cheers.] It gives
  me great pleasure to stand here in the prosperous and growing city
  of Canton. I am glad to be at the home of one with whom I have been
  associated in Congressional duties for a number of years, and who in
  all personal relations with me, as I believe in all personal relations
  with you, his neighbors, has won my regard, as I am sure he has won
  yours [cheers]; and without any regard to what may be thought of the
  McKinley bill, I am sure here to-day you are all the good neighbors
  and friends of William McKinley. [Cheers.] Kind-hearted and generous
  as he seems to me, I am sure he has not failed in these social
  relations, whatever judgment you may have of his political opinions,
  in making the masses of the people proud of him as their distinguished
  friend. [Cheers.]

  You have here to-day the representatives of men from the shops,
  from the railroads, from the stores, from the offices of your city.
  You are living together in those helpful and interchanging relations
  which make American life pleasant and which make American cities
  prosperous. The foundation of our society is in the motto that every
  man shall have such wages as will enable him to live decently and
  comfortably, and rear his children as helpful and safe and useful
  American citizens. [Cheers.] We all desire, I am sure--every kindly
  heart--that all the relations between employers and workmen shall be
  friendly and kind. I wish everywhere the associations were closer and
  employers more thoughtful of those who work for them. I am sure there
  is one thing in which we all agree, whatever our views may be on the
  tariff or finance, and that is, there is no prosperity that in the
  wide, liberal sense does not embrace within it every deserving and
  industrious man and woman in the community. [Cheers.] We are here all
  responsible citizens, and we should all be free from anything that
  detracts from our liberties and independence, or that retards the
  development of our intelligence, morality, and patriotism.

  I am glad here to speak to some, too, who were comrades in the great
  struggle of the Civil War [cheers]; glad that there are here soldiers
  who had part in that great success by which our institutions were
  preserved and the control and sovereignty of the Constitution and law
  were forever established. [Cheers.] To them, and to all such friends,
  I extend to-day a hearty greeting, and would if I could extend a
  comrade's hand. [Cheers.] And now, my friends, the heat of this day,
  the exhaustion of a dozen speeches, made at intervals as we have come
  along, renders it impossible that I should speak to you longer. I beg
  to thank you all for your presence. I beg to hope that, as American
  citizens, however we differ about particular matters of legislation or
  administration, we are all pledged, heart and soul, life and property,
  to the preservation of the Union and to the honor of our glorious
  flag. [Great cheering.]




ALLIANCE, OHIO, OCTOBER 13.


At Alliance the assembly was very large. A Reception Committee, headed
by Mayor J. M. Stillwell and comprising the following leading citizens,
met the President: Hon. David Fording, H. W. Harris, T. R. Morgan, Wm.
Brinker, Madison Trail, Dr. J. H. Tressel, H. W. Brush, W. H. Morgan,
Thos. Brocklebank, Chas. Ott, Dr. W. P. Preston, E. N. Johnston, J. H.
Focht, W. H. Ramsey, W. W. Webb, E. E. Scranton, Henry Heer, Jr., and
Harper Brosius.

Chairman Fording delivered a welcoming address and introduced President
Harrison, who in response said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--There is nothing in which the American people
  are harder upon their public servants than in the insatiable demand
  they make for public speech. I began talking before breakfast this
  morning, and have been kept almost continuously at it through the
  day, with scarcely time for lunch; and yet, as long as the smallest
  residuum of strength or voice is left I cannot fail to recognize these
  hearty greetings and to say some appreciative word in return. I do
  very much thank you, and I do very deeply feel the cordial enthusiasm
  with which you have received me. It is very pleasant to know that
  as American citizens we love our Government and its institutions,
  and are all ready to pay appropriate respect to any public officer
  who endeavors in such light as he has to do his public duty. This
  homage is not withheld by one's political opponents, and it is
  pleasant to know that in all things that affect the integrity and
  honor and perpetuity of our Government we rise above party ties and
  considerations. The interests of this Government are lodged with you.
  There is not much that a President can do to shape its policy. He is
  charged under the Constitution with the duty of making suggestions to
  Congress, but, after all, legislation originates with the Congress of
  the United States, and the policy of our laws is directed by it. The
  President may veto, but he cannot frame a bill. Therefore it is of
  great interest to you, and to all our people, that you should choose
  such men to represent you in the Congress of the United States as
  will faithfully promote those policies to which you have given your
  intelligent adhesion. This country of ours is secure, and social
  order is maintained, because the great masses of our people live in
  contentment and some good measure of comfort. God forbid that we
  should ever reach the condition which has been reached by some other
  countries, where all that is before many of their population is the
  question of bare subsistence, where it is simply "how shall I find
  bread for to-day?" No hopes of accumulation; no hope of comfort; no
  hope of education, or higher things for the children that are to come
  after them. God be blessed that that is not our condition in America!
  Here is a chance to every man; here fair wages for fair work, with
  education for the masses, with no classes or distinctions to keep down
  the ambitious young. We have a happy lot. Let us not grumble if now
  and then things are not prosperous as they might be. Let us think of
  the average, and if this year's crop is not as full as we could wish,
  we have already in these green fields the promise of a better one to
  come. Let us not doubt that we are now--as I have seen the evidence of
  it in a very extended trip through the West--entering upon an up grade
  in all departments of business. [Cheers.] Everywhere I went, in the
  great city of St. Louis and the smaller manufacturing towns through
  which we passed, there was one story to tell--and I have no doubt it
  is true in your midst--every wheel is running and every hand is busy.
  [Cheers.] I believe the future is bright before us for increasingly
  better times for all, and as it comes I hope it may be so generally
  diffused that its kindly touch may be felt by every one who hears me,
  and that its beneficent help may come into every home. [Prolonged
  cheers.]




KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, APRIL 14, 1891.

_Letter to Western States Commercial Congress._


The first Western States Commercial Congress met at Kansas City, Mo.,
April 14, 1891. Delegations composed mainly of business men, appointed
by the Governors of the various States and Territories, were present
from the following Western and Southern States and Territories: Alabama,
California, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri,
Montana, Nebraska, Tennessee, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin, Wyoming, New
Mexico, and Oklahoma. On motion of Governor Francis, of Missouri, State
Senator H. B. Kelly, of Kansas, was chosen Chairman of the Congress and
Hon. John W. Springer, of Illinois, Secretary. Letters of regret were
read from those who had been specially invited to attend the Congress.
Among the letters was the following from President Harrison:

                                           WASHINGTON, April 7.
  HON. H. B. KELLY, _Chairman, Kansas City, Mo._:

  DEAR SIR--I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter
  of March 24, inviting me to attend the meeting of the commercial
  congress of the Western agricultural and mining States, to assemble in
  Kansas City, April 14 to 19, for the purpose of considering measures
  affecting the general agricultural and business prosperity of the
  Mississippi Valley States. I regret that it will not be possible for
  me to accept this invitation. If I am not detained here by public
  business I shall probably start about that time for the Pacific coast
  by the Southern route; and if that purpose should be thwarted it will
  be by considerations that will also prevent the acceptance of your
  invitation.

  A public discussion of the conditions affecting agricultural and
  business prosperity cannot but be helpful, if it is conducted on broad
  lines and is hospitable to differences of opinion. The extraordinary
  development of the productions of agriculture which has taken place
  in a recent period in this country by reason of the rapid enlargement
  of the area of tillage under the favoring land laws of the United
  States, very naturally has called attention to the value, and, indeed,
  the necessity of larger markets. I am one of those who believe that
  a home market is necessarily the best market for the producer, as
  it measurably emancipates him in proportion to its nearness from
  the exactions of the transportation companies. If the farmer could
  deliver his surplus produce to the consumer out of his farm-wagon
  his independence and his profits would be larger and surer. It seems
  to me quite possible to attain a largely increased market for our
  staple farm products without impairing our home market by opening the
  manufacturing trades to a competition in which foreign producers,
  paying a lower scale of wages, would have the advantage. A policy that
  would reduce the number of our people engaged in mechanical pursuits
  or diminish their ability to purchase food products by reducing wages
  cannot be helpful to those now engaged in agriculture. The farmers
  insist that the prices of farm products have been too low--below the
  point of fair living and fair profits. I think so too, but I venture
  to remind them that the plea they make involves the concession that
  things may be too cheap. A coat may be too cheap as well as corn.
  The farmer who claims a good living and profits for his work should
  concede the same to every other man and woman who toils.

  I look with great confidence to the completion of further reciprocal
  trade arrangements, especially with the Central and South American
  states, as furnishing new and large markets for meats, breadstuffs,
  and an important line of manufactured products. Persistent and earnest
  efforts are also being made, and a considerable measure of success has
  already been attained, to secure the removal of restrictions which we
  have regarded as unjust upon the admission and use of our meats and
  live cattle in some of the European countries. I look with confidence
  to a successful termination of the pending negotiations, because I
  cannot but assume that when the absolutely satisfactory character of
  the sanitary inspections now provided by our law is made known to
  those foreign states they will promptly relax their discriminating
  regulations. No effort and none of the powers vested in the Executive
  will be left unused to secure an end which is so desirable.

  Your deliberations will probably also embrace consideration of the
  question of the volume and character of our currency. It will not be
  possible and would not be appropriate for me in this letter to enter
  upon any elaborate discussion of these questions. One or two things
  I will say, and first, I believe that every person who thoughtfully
  considers the question will agree with me upon a proposition which is
  at the base of all my consideration of the currency question, namely,
  that any dollar, paper or coin, that is issued by the United States
  must be made and kept in its commercial uses as good as any other
  dollar. So long as any paper money issued or authorized by the United
  States Government is accepted in commercial use as the equivalent of
  the best coined dollar that we issue, and so long as every coined
  dollar, whether of silver or gold, is assured of an equivalent value
  in commercial use, there need be no fear as to an excess of money. The
  more such money the better. But, on the other hand, when any issue of
  paper or coined dollars is, in buying and selling, rated at a less
  value than other paper or coined dollars, we have passed the limit of
  safe experiment in finance. If we have dollars of differing values,
  only the poorest will circulate. The farmer and the laborer, who are
  not in hourly touch with the ticker of the telegraph, will require,
  above all other classes of our community, a dollar of full value.
  Fluctuations and depreciations are always at the first cost of these
  classes of our community. The banker and the speculator anticipate,
  discount, and often profit by such fluctuations. It is very easy,
  under the impulse of excitement of the stress of money stringency, to
  fall into the slough of a depreciated or irredeemable currency. It is
  a very painful and slow business to get out when once in.

  I have always believed, and do now more than ever believe, in
  bimetallism, and favor the fullest use of silver in connection with
  our currency that is compatible with the maintenance of the parity
  of the gold and silver dollars in their commercial uses. Nothing, in
  my judgment, would so much retard the restoration of the free use of
  silver by the commercial nations of the world as legislation adopted
  by us that would result in placing this country upon a basis of
  silver monometallism. The legislation adopted by the first session
  of the Fifty-first Congress I was assured by leading advocates of
  free coinage--representatives of the silver States--would promptly
  and permanently bring silver to $1.29 per ounce and keep it there.
  That anticipation has not been realized. Our larger use of silver has
  apparently, and for reasons not yet agreed upon, diminished the demand
  for silver in China and India.

  In view of the fact that it is impossible in this letter to
  elaborate, and that propositions only can be stated, I am aware
  that what I have said may be assailed in points where it is easily
  defensible, but where I have not attempted to present the argument.

  I have not before, excepting in an official way, expressed myself
  on these subjects; but feeling the interest, dignity, and importance
  of the assemblage in whose behalf you speak, I have ventured, without
  bigotry of opinion, without any assumption of infallibility, but as an
  American citizen, having a most earnest desire that every individual
  and every public act of my life shall conduce to the glory of our
  country and the prosperity of all our people, to submit these views
  for your consideration.

          Very respectfully,                     BENJAMIN HARRISON.




ACROSS THE CONTINENT, 1891.


President Harrison started on his memorable journey to Texas and
the Pacific Coast States at 12:15 o'clock Tuesday morning, April
14, 1891. The party consisted of the President and Mrs. Harrison,
Postmaster-General John Wanamaker, Secretary of Agriculture J. M. Rusk,
Mr. and Mrs. Russell B. Harrison, Mrs. J. R. McKee, Mrs. Dimmick, Maj.
J. P. Sanger, Military Aid to the President, Marshal Daniel M. Ransdell,
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. W. Boyd, Mr. E. F. Tibbott, stenographer to the
President, and Alfred J. Clark, O. P. Austin, and R. Y. Oulahan, press
representatives. At Chattanooga the party was joined by the President's
younger brother, Mr. Carter B. Harrison, and wife, and at Los Angeles by
Mr. C. L. Saunders.

The train that safely carried the head of the Nation on this great tour
was a marvel of mechanical perfection unrivalled in equipment. Mr. Geo.
W. Boyd, General Assistant Passenger Agent of the Pennsylvania Railroad,
prepared the schedule and had charge of the train throughout.

No predecessor of President Harrison ever attempted the great task of
travelling 10,000 miles, or delivering 140 impromptu addresses within
the limit of 30 days--an achievement remarkable in many respects. His
long-extended itinerary was an almost continuous series of receptions
and responses, and there is no instance where any man in public life,
subjected to the requirements of a similar hospitable ordeal, has
acquitted himself with greater dignity, tact, and good sense both as
to the matter and manner of his utterances. This series of speeches is
in marked contrast with his incisive utterances during the campaign of
1888, and disclose General Harrison's ability to seize the vital topic
of the moment and present it to a mixed audience in such a way that
while consistent with his own record he yet raises no antagonisms.




ROANOKE, VIRGINIA, APRIL 14.


Leaving Washington shortly after midnight, the train passed through
Lynchburg at an early hour and arrived at Roanoke, its first
stopping-point, at 8:50 A.M. Seemingly the entire population of the
enterprising city was out to welcome the President to Old Virginia.
Prominent among those who greeted the party were Mr. and Mrs. Charles G.
Eddy, W. B. Bevill, John A. Pack, Allen Hull, A. S. Asberry, and John D.
Smith.

After shaking hands with several hundred, President Harrison, in
response to repeated calls, spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I desire to thank you very sincerely for
  this friendly greeting. The State of Virginia is entitled, I think,
  to high estimation among the States for its great history--for the
  contribution it has made to the great story of our common country.
  This fact you discovered, I think, long ago. For personal reasons I
  have great affection for Virginia. It is the State of my fathers. I am
  glad this morning to congratulate you upon the marvellous development
  which has come, and the greater which is coming, to your commonwealth.

  You not only have an illustrious story behind you, but before you
  prospects of development in wealth and prosperity, in all that makes a
  great State, such as never entered into the imagination of those who
  laid the foundation of the commonwealth. [Cheers.] You are arousing
  now to a realization of the benefits of diversity of industries.

  In the olden time Virginia was a plantation State. I hope she may
  never cease to have large agricultural interests. It is the foundation
  of stable society, but I rejoice with you that she has added to
  agriculture the mining of coal and iron, and, bringing these from
  their beds, is producing all the products that enter into the uses of
  life.

  In this is the secret of that great growth illustrating what I see
  about me here, and the promise of a future which none of us can fully
  realize. In all of these things we have a common interest, and I beg
  to assure you that in everything that tends to the social order of
  your people and the development and increased prosperity of the State
  of Virginia I am in most hearty sympathy with you all. [Cheers.]




BRISTOL, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14.


The town of Radford, Va., acknowledged the honor of the President's
visit in a cordial way. General Harrison shook hands with many of the
inhabitants. At Bristol, Tenn., a crowd of several thousand greeted
the party at the station. The President was met and escorted to a high
bluff overlooking the city by Hon. Harvey C. Wood, at the head of the
following committee of prominent citizens: Col. E. C. Manning, Hon. I.
C. Fowler, Judge M. B. Wood, A. S. McNeil, W. A. Sparger, A. C. Smith,
C. H. Slack, Rockingham Paul, Esq., Capt. J. H. Wood, Judge C. J. St.
John, Col. Nat M. Taylor, and John H. Caldwell.

Judge Wood made the welcoming address and introduced the President, who,
in response, said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have found not only pleasure but instruction
  in riding to-day through a portion of the State of Virginia that is
  feeling in a very striking way the impulse of a new development. It
  is extremely gratifying to notice that those hidden sources of wealth
  which were so long unobserved and so long unused are now being found,
  and that these regions, once so retired, occupied by a pastoral
  people, having difficult access to the centres of population, are
  now being rapidly transformed into busy manufacturing and commercial
  centres.

  In the early settlement of this city the emigrants poured over the
  Alleghanies and the Blue Ridge like waters over an obstructing ledge,
  seeking the fertile and attractive farm regions of the great West.
  They passed unobserved these marvellous hidden stores of wealth which
  are now being brought into use. Having filled those great basins of
  the West, they are now turning back to Virginia and West Virginia and
  Tennessee to bring about a development and production for which the
  time is ripe, and which will surprise the world. [Cheers.]

  It has not been long since every implement of iron, domestic,
  agricultural, and mechanical, was made in other States. The iron
  point of the wooden mould-board plough with which the early farmers
  here turned the soil came from distant States. But now Virginia and
  Tennessee are stirring their energies to participate in a large degree
  in mechanical productions and in the great awakening of American
  influence which will lift the Nation to a place among the nations of
  the world never before attained. [Cheers.]

  What hinders us, secure in the market of our own great population,
  from successful competition in the markets of the world? What hinders
  our people, possessing every element of material wealth and endowed
  with inventive genius and energy unsurpassed, from having again upon
  the seas a merchant marine flying the flag of our country and carrying
  its commerce into every sea and every port?

  I am glad to stand for this moment among you, glad to express my
  sympathy with you in every enterprise that tends to develop your
  State and local communities; glad to stand with you upon the one
  common platform of respect to the Constitution and the law, differing
  in our policies as to what the law should be, but pledged with a
  common devotion and obedience to law as the majority shall by their
  expressions make it.

  I shall carry away from here a new impulse to public duty, a new
  inspiration as a citizen with you of a country whose greatness is
  only dawning. And may I now express the pleasure I shall have in
  every good that comes to you as a community and to each of you as
  individuals? May peace, prosperity, and social order dwell in your
  communities, and the fear and love of God in every home! [Cheers.]




JOHNSON CITY, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14. 1891


The President was welcomed at Johnson City by 3,000 people. S. K. N.
Patton Post, G. A. R, with Maj. A. Cantwell, J. M. Erwin, and W. Hodges,
acted as a guard of honor to the Chief Magistrate. The committee to
receive and entertain the President comprised: Mayor Ike T. Jobe, Hon.
W. G. Mathes, President Board of Trade; Hon. T. F. Singiser, Hon. A.
B. Bowman, Hon. B. F. Childress, Thos. E. Matson, Jas. M. Martin, J.
C. Campbell, H. C. Chandler, J. W. Cox, C. W. Marsh, L. W. Wood, J.
A. Mathes, H. W. Hargraves, J. F. Crumley, M. N. Johnson, and W. W.
Kirkpatrick.

Congressman Alfred A. Taylor presented the President, who spoke as
follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The office of President of the United States
  is one of very high honor and is also one of very high responsibility.
  No man having conscientiously at heart the good of the whole people,
  whose interests are, under the law, in some degree committed to his
  care, can fail to feel a most oppressive sense of inadequacy when he
  comes to the discharge of these high functions.

  Elected under a system of government which gives to the majority
  of our people who have expressed their wishes through constitutional
  methods the right to choose their public servants, when he has taken
  the oath that inducts him into office he becomes the servant of all
  the people, and while he may pursue the advocacy of those measures to
  which the people have given their approval by his choice, he should
  always act and speak with a reserve and a respect for the opinion
  of others that shall not alienate from him the good-will of his
  fellow-citizens, without regard to political belief.

  I shall not speak of what has been done, but I have a supreme regard
  for the honor of the Nation, a profound respect for the Constitution,
  and a most sincere desire to meet the just expectations of my
  fellow-citizens. I am not one of those who believe that the good of
  any class can be permanently and largely attained except upon lines
  which promote the good of all our people.

  I rejoice in the Union of the States. I rejoice to stand here
  in East Tennessee among a people who so conspicuously and at such
  sacrifice during the hour of the Nation's peril stood by the flag
  and adhered to their convictions of public duty [cheers]; and I am
  especially glad to be able to say that those who, following other
  views of duty, took sides against us in that struggle, without
  division in voice or heart to-day praise Almighty God that He
  preserved us one Nation. [Cheers.]

  There is no man, whatever his views upon the questions that then
  divided us, but, in view of the marvellous benefits which are
  disseminating themselves over these States, must also bless God to-day
  that slavery no longer exists and that the Union of free States is
  indissoluble. [Cheers.]

  What is it that has stirred the public of this great region, that
  has kindled these furnace fires, that has converted these retired and
  isolated farms upon which you and your ancestors dwelt into centres
  of trade and mechanical pursuits, bringing a market close to the door
  of the farmer and bringing prosperity into every home? It is that we
  have no line of division between the States; it is that these impulses
  of freedom and enterprise, once limited in their operations, are now
  common in all the States. We have a common heritage. The Confederate
  soldier has a full, honorable, and ungrudged participation in all the
  benefits of a great and just Government. [Cheers.]

  I do not doubt to-day that these would be among the readiest of our
  population to follow the old flag if it should be assailed from any
  quarter. [Cheers.]

  Now, my fellow-countrymen, I can pause but a moment with you. It
  does me good to look into your faces, to receive these evidences of
  your good-will. I hope I may have guidance and courage in such time as
  remains to me in public life conscientiously to serve the public good
  and the common glory of our beloved country. [Great cheering.]




JONESBORO, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14.


At Jonesboro, the oldest city in Tennessee and the ancient capital
of the State of Franklin, the President was the recipient of a most
cordial welcome. All the residents of the town seemed to be present.
Among the prominent citizens who participated in the greeting were:
Mayor I. E. Reeves, Judge Newton Hacker, R. M. May, Col. T. H. Reeves,
A. J. Patterson, S. H. Anderson, Capt. A. S. Deaderick, James H. Epps,
Jacob Leab, S. H. L. Cooper, Judge A. J. Brown, John D. Cox, E. H. West,
J. A. Febuary, T. B. Hacker, R. N. Dosser, Capt. Geo. McPherson, and
Chancellor J. P. Smith.

General Harrison's allusion to John Sevier and his struggle to establish
the State of Franklin elicited hearty applause. He spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We tarry but a moment at this ancient and
  interesting city, whose story goes back, I think, to the establishment
  of the State of Franklin, of which perhaps not all of you, certainly
  not these little ones, ever heard, which John Sevier attempted to set
  up as an independent commonwealth.

  But yet it is not of antiquity that I desire to speak, for ancient
  history is not of the greatest interest to you now. The Scripture
  speaks, I think--my Postmaster-General is near, and if I fall into
  error will correct me [laughter]--of a time when the old things shall
  pass away and all things shall become new. Tennessee is realizing that
  beatitude; the old things, the old way of doing things, the stiff clay
  and steep mountain roads have passed away and the steam-car has come.

  The old times of isolation in these valleys, when these pioneers,
  some of whom I see, made their frontier homes, have passed away, and
  influences from the outside have come; life has been made easier to
  men and easier to the toiling women who used to carry the water from
  the spring at the bottom of the hill in a piggin, but who now by
  modern appliances have it brought into the kitchen.

  You have come to know now that not only the surface of the soil
  has wealth in it, but that under the surface there are vast sources
  of wealth to gladden the homes of your people and to bring with new
  industries a thrifty population. But of all these old things that
  have passed away and the new ones that have come, I am sure you are
  exultantly glad in this region, where there was so much martyrdom for
  the flag, so much exile, so much suffering, that the one Union, the
  one Constitution, and the one flag might be preserved, to know that
  those old strifes have passed away, and that a period of fraternity
  has come when all men are for the flag and all for the Constitution,
  when it has been forever put out of the minds of all people that
  this Union can be dissolved or this Constitution overthrown. [Great
  cheering.]

  On all these new things I congratulate the citizens of Tennessee.
  Turn your faces to the morning, for the sun is lightening the
  hill-tops; there is coming to our country a great growth, an
  extraordinary development, and you are to be full participants in it
  all. While other nations of the world have reached a climax in their
  home development, and are struggling to parcel out remote regions of
  the earth that their commerce may be extended, we have here prodigious
  resources that are yet to be touched by the finger of development, and
  we have the power, if we will, to put our flag again on the sea and to
  share in the world's commerce. [Cheers.]




GREENVILLE, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14.


The home of President Andrew Johnson--Greenville, Tenn.--gave the
President a cordial greeting through its welcoming committee, consisting
of Mayor John M. Brabson, Aldermen A. N. Shown, J. D. Britton, E. C.
Miller, and W. H. Williams; also Burnside Post, G. A. R., W. T. Mitchell
Commander; A. J. Frazier, and the children of the public schools, in
charge of Principal L. McWhisler.

President Harrison said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The arrangements for our journey will not
  permit me to tarry with you long. I thank you most sincerely for this
  cordial demonstration. I rejoice to see in the hands of the children
  here that banner of glory which is the symbol of our greatness and the
  promise of our security.

  I am glad that by the common consent of all our people, without any
  regard to past differences, we have once and forever struck hands
  upon the proposition that from the lakes to the gulf, from the St.
  Lawrence to the Bay of California, there shall be one flag and one
  Constitution. [Great cheering.] The story that it brings to us from
  the time of its adoption as our national emblem is one in which we may
  all find instruction and inspiration. It is the flag of the free.

  It symbolizes a government most aptly expressed by the greatest
  statesman of the people, Abraham Lincoln, to be "a government of the
  people, by the people, and for the people"--a government that spreads
  a sky of hope above the head of every child, that has abolished
  all class distinctions, and has opened all places of eminence and
  usefulness in the state and in commerce to the ambitious and energetic
  young man.

  This city has given to the country a conspicuous illustration in
  your distinguished former fellow-citizen, Andrew Johnson, of what free
  institutions may do, and what an aspiring young man may do against all
  adverse conditions in life. To every one perfect freedom is guaranteed
  within the limits of due respect to the rights of others. Thanking you
  again for this presence and friendly greeting, I bid you good-by.




MORRISTOWN, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14.


At Morristown several thousand citizens and residents of Hamblen, Cocke,
Grainger, and Jefferson counties assembled to greet the President. The
Reception Committee was Mayor W. S. Dickson, R. L. Gaut, H. Williams, W.
H. Maze, A. S. Jenkins, and James A. Goddard. At the conclusion of the
President's speech an old grizzled veteran stepped upon the platform,
and reaching out his hand said: "Mr. President, I was in that Atlanta
campaign, on the other side, and helped to keep you back, but now the
war is over I'm proud to take your hand." The President showed great
pleasure at this greeting, and held the old soldier's hand several
minutes, the spectators meanwhile cheering lustily. A large number of
ex-Confederates witnessed this incident.

President Harrison's speech on the occasion was as follows:

  _My Fellow citizens_--It will not be possible for me to speak to you
  for more than a moment, and yet I cannot refuse, in justice to my own
  feelings, to express my deep appreciation of your cordial reception.
  I visit to-day for the first time East Tennessee, but it is a region
  in which I have always felt a profound interest and for whose people I
  have always entertained a most sincere respect.

  It seems to be true in the history of man that those who are called
  to dwell among mountain peaks, in regions where the convulsions
  of nature have lifted the rocks toward the sky, have always been
  characterized by a personal independence of character, by a devotion
  to liberty, and by courage in defence of their rights and their homes.
  The legends that cluster about the mountain peaks of Scotland and the
  patriotic devotion that makes memorable the passes of Switzerland have
  been repeated in the mountains of East Tennessee.

  In those periods of great struggles, when communications were
  difficult and often interrupted, the hearts of the people of Indiana
  went out to the beleaguered friends of the Union beyond the Cumberland
  Gap. I am glad to know that it is no longer difficult to reach you
  for succor or for friendly social intercourse, for travel has been
  quickened and made easy. Some one mentioned just now that it was only
  four hours and a half from Chattanooga to Atlanta. That is not my
  recollection [laughter]; I think we spent as many months making that
  trip. [Laughter.]

  I am glad to know that now, by the consent of all your people,
  without regard to the differences that separated you then, your
  highways are open to all of us, without prejudice; that your hearts
  are true to the Union and the Constitution, and that the high sense
  of public duty which then characterized you still abides among your
  people. May your valleys be always full of prosperity, your homes the
  abode of affection and love, and of all that makes the American home
  the best of all homes and the sure nursery of good citizens. [Cheers.]




KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE, APRIL 14.


On the evening of the first day of the journey Knoxville was reached.
The distinguished travellers were welcomed by a citizens' committee,
composed of William Rule, Chairman; Col. E. J. Sanford, Hon. J. C.
J. Williams, Hon. L. C. Houk, Col. J. Vandeventer, M. L. Ross, John
T. Hearn, Alex. Summers, Wm. M. Baxter, F. A. Moses, John W. Conner,
B. R. Strong, Hon. Peter Kern, Capt. W. P. Chamberlain, Col. J. B.
Minnis, W. H. Simmonds, John L. Hudiburg, Capt. A. J. Albers, Hon. J. W.
Caldwell, and W. P. Smith. After visiting Fort Sanders and viewing the
battle-field by twilight the party returned to the city, where a vast
audience was assembled.

Col. William A. Henderson introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It gives me pleasure to visit this historical
  city--a city that has given to the country many men who have been
  eminent in its councils and brought to the Nation they served and to
  the people who called them into the public service great honor. I am
  glad to visit East Tennessee, the scene of that early immigration and
  of those early struggles of men who, for vigor of intellect, strength
  of heart, and devotion to republican principles, were among the most
  conspicuous of the early pioneers of the West and Southwest.

  I am glad to know that that deep devotion to the cause of the
  Union which manifested itself in the early contributions of
  Tennessee to the armies that went to the defence of the homes of the
  Northwest abides still in these valleys and crowns with its glory
  and lustre every hill-top of the Alleghanies. You are feeling now a
  material development that is interesting and pleasing to all your
  fellow-citizens of the States.

  I beg to say to you that whoever supposes that there is anywhere
  in the Northern States any jealousy of this great material progress
  which the South is making wholly misconceives the friendly heart of
  the people of the North. It is my wish, as I am sure it is the wish
  of all with whom I associate in political life, that the streams of
  prosperity in the South may run bank-full; that in everything that
  promotes the prosperity of the State, the security and comfort of the
  community, and the happiness of the individual home, your blessings
  may be full and unstinted.

  We live in a Government of law. The compact of our organization
  is that a majority of our people, taking those methods which are
  prescribed by the Constitution and law, shall determine our public
  policies and choose our rulers. It is our solemn compact; it cannot
  safely be broken. We may safely differ about policies; we may safely
  divide upon the question as to what shall be the law; but when the
  law is once enacted no community can safely divide on the question of
  implicit obedience to the law.

  It is the one rule of conduct for us all. I may not choose as
  President what laws I will enforce, and the citizen may not choose
  what laws he will obey. Upon this broad principle our institutions
  rest. If we save it, all the agitations and tumults of our campaigns,
  exciting though they may be, will be harmless to move our Government
  from its safe and abiding foundation.

  If we abandon it, all is gone. Therefore, my appeal everywhere is
  to hold the law in veneration and reverence. We have no other king;
  public officers are your servants; but in the august and majestic
  presence of the law we all uncover and bow the knee.

  May every prosperity attend you. May this ground, made memorable by
  one of the most gallant assaults and by one of the most successful
  defences in the story of the war, never again be stained by
  blood; but may our people, in one common love of one flag and one
  Constitution, in a common and pervading fealty to the great principles
  of our Government, go on to achieve material wealth, and in social
  development, in intelligence, in piety, in everything that makes
  a nation great and a people happy, secure all the Lord has in His
  mind for a Nation that He has so conspicuously blessed. [Great and
  prolonged cheering.]




CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, APRIL 15.


Chattanooga was reached Wednesday morning at 8:30 o'clock. The President
was received with marked cordiality and enthusiasm by the several
thousand citizens assembled at the station. At this point the party
was joined by the President's younger brother, Mr. Carter B. Harrison,
and his wife, of Murfreesboro, Tenn. The following prominent citizens
comprised the committee that received the President: Hon. J. B. Merriam,
Mayor of Chattanooga; Hon. H. Clay Evans, Judge David M. Key, H. S.
Chamberlain, D. J. O'Connell, Henophen Wheeler, John Crimmins, Maj. J.
F. Shipp, Col. Tomlinson Fort, John T. Wilder, Adolph S. Ochs, John B.
Nicklin, L. G. Walker, A. J. Gahagan, C. E. James, F. G. Montague, H. M.
Wiltse, John W. Stone, J. B. Pound, E. W. Mattson, and Judge Whiteside.

The committee escorted the distinguished guests to the summit of
Lookout Mountain. At the Lookout Inn President Harrison pointed out
to his immediate companions the spot where he was encamped for a time
during the war. From the mountain the party was driven about the city,
which was profusely decorated. All the school children in the city stood
in front of their respective schools and waved flags and shouted as the
President and Mrs. Harrison drove by. Assembled around the platform
where the general reception was held were many thousand people.

Ex-Congressman Evans, amid deafening cheers, introduced the President,
who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have greatly enjoyed the opportunity of
  seeing Chattanooga again. I saw it last as the camp of a great army.
  Its only industries were military, its stores were munitions of war,
  its pleasant hill-tops were torn with rifle-pits, its civic population
  the attendants of an army campaign. I see it to-day a great city, a
  prosperous commercial centre. I see these hill-tops, then bristling
  with guns, crowned with happy homes; I see these streets, through
  which the worn veterans of many campaigns then marched, made glad with
  the presence of happy children. Everything is changed.

  The wand of an enchanter has touched these hills, and old Lookout,
  that frowned over the valleys from which the plough had been
  withdrawn, now looks upon the peaceful industries of country life.
  All things are changed, except that the flag that then floated over
  Chattanooga floats here still. [Cheers.] It has passed from the hand
  of the veterans, who bore it to victory in battle, into the hands
  of the children, who lift it as an emblem of peace. [Cheers.] Then
  Chattanooga was war's gateway to the South; now it is the gateway of
  peace, commerce, and prosperity. [Cheers.]

  There have been two conquests--one with arms, the other with the
  gentle influences of peace--and the last is greater than the first.
  [Cheers.] The first is only great as it made way for that which
  followed; and now, one again in our devotion to the Constitution and
  the laws, one again in the determination that the question of the
  severance of the federal relations of these States shall never again
  be raised, we have started together upon a career of prosperity and
  development that has as yet given only the signs of what is to come.

  I congratulate Tennessee, I congratulate this prosperous city, I
  congratulate all those who through this gateway give and receive
  the interchanges of friendly commerce, that there is being wrought
  throughout our country a unification by commerce, a unification by
  similarity of institutions and habits, that shall in time erase every
  vestige of difference, and shall make us, not only in contemplation of
  the law, but in heart and sympathy, one people. [Cheers.]

  I thank you for your cordial greeting to-day, and hope for the
  development of the industries of our country and for the settling of
  our institutions upon the firm base of a respect for the law. In this
  glad springtime, while the gardens are full of blossoms and the fields
  give promise of another harvest, and your homes are full of happy
  children, let us thank God for what He has wrought for us as a people,
  and, each in our place, resolutely maintain the great idea upon which
  everything is builded--the rule of the majority, constitutionally
  expressed, and the absolute equality of all men before the law.
  [Cheers.]




CARTERSVILLE, GEORGIA, APRIL 15.


The first stop after crossing the Georgia State line was Cartersville,
where a citizens' committee, headed by M. G. Dobbins, W. H. Howard, and
Walter Akerman, received the President, who in response to repeated
calls said:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for coming here in this
  shower to show your good-will. I can only assure you that I entirely
  reciprocate your good feelings. I have had great pleasure to-day in
  passing over some parts of the old route that I took once before under
  very different and distressing circumstances, to find how easy it is,
  when we are all agreed, to travel between Chattanooga and Atlanta.
  I am glad to see the evidences of prosperity that abound through
  your country, and I wish you in all your relations every human good.
  [Cheers.]




ATLANTA, GEORGIA, APRIL 15.

          "What War has ravaged Commerce can bestow,
          And he returns a Friend who came a Foe."


The presidential party travelled over the Western and Atlantic route
from Chattanooga to Atlanta, passing through historic battle-grounds
with which the President and other members of his party were once
familiar. General Harrison actively participated in the Atlanta campaign
and held the chief command at the battle of Resaca. It was with keen
interest, therefore, that he viewed this memorable field in company
with Marshal Ransdell, who lost an arm there. Short stops were made
at the battle-fields of Chickamauga, Tunnel Hill, Resaca, Dug Gap,
and Kennesaw. At Marietta the President was met by a committee from
the city government of Atlanta, consisting of Mayor W. A. Hemphill,
Aldermen Hutchison, Woodward, Rice, Shropshire, and Middlebrooks;
Councilmen Murphy, Hendrix, Lambert, Holbrook, Sawtell, King, Turner,
McBride, and City Clerk Woodward. These officials were accompanied by a
special committee of citizens representing the Chamber of Commerce and
the veteran associations, comprising ex-Gov. R. B. Bullock, Gen. J. R.
Lewis, Capt. John Milledge, Julius L. Brown, S. M. Inman, Hon. J. T.
Glenn, and Hon. W. L. Calhoun.

A vast throng greeted the President's arrival. Gov. William J. Northen
and the other members of the Reception Committee received the party.
Governor Northen said: "I am glad to welcome your excellency to the
State of Georgia. You will find among us a loyal and hospitable people,
and in their name I welcome you to the State."

Replying, the President said it gave him great pleasure to visit the
Empire State of the South, the wonderful evidences of the prosperity of
which were manifest in the stirring city of Atlanta.

In the evening the President and his party were tendered a reception
at the Capitol by Governor Northen and Mayor Hemphill, assisted by
Chief-Justice Bleckley, Judge Simmons, Judge Lumpkin, Gen. Phil. Cook,
Comptroller-General Wright, Judge Van Epps, and the following prominent
citizens: E. P. Chamberlin, J. W. Rankin, G. T. Dodd, Judge Hook, R. J.
Lowry, J. W. English, Hoke Smith, Phil. Breitenbucher, J. G. Oglesby,
John Silvey, Capt. Harry Jackson, Jacob Haas, W. L. Peel, B. F. Abbott,
John Fitten, Joe Hirsch, George Hillyer, A. A. Murphy, P. Romare, J. B.
Goodwin, David Wyly, G. H. Tanner, Dr. Henry S. Wilson, J. F. Edwards,
M. A. Hardin, A. J. McBride, John J. Doonan, Hugh Inman, J. H. Mountain,
M. C. Kiser, E. P. Howell, A. E. Buck, Edgar Angier, Col. L. M. Terrell,
S. A. Darnell, John C. Manly, T. B. Neal, Walter Johnson, Major Mims,
W. R. Brown, Col. T. P. Westmoreland, Albert Cox, Clarence Knowles, H.
M. Atkinson, J. C. Kimball, C. A. Collier, Rhode Hill, Howard Van Epps,
W. H. Venable, G. W. Adair, F. T. Ryan, L. P. Thomas, H. F. Starke, W.
A. Wright, Amos Fox, R. L. Rodgers, H. C. Divine, W. M. Scott, A. B.
Carrier, W. B. Miles, T. C. Watson, and L. B. Nelson.

At the conclusion of the reception the President, accompanied by Mayor
Hemphill, Hon. A. L. Kontz, and Superintendent Slaton, visited the night
school, where the boys gave him an enthusiastic welcome and called for a
speech.

The President said:

  I am glad to be with you to-night. Having but a few minutes to spare
  I would offer a few words of encouragement to you. Most, if not all,
  of you are here at night because your circumstances are such that the
  day must be given to toil. The day is your earning period. The night
  must, therefore, be set apart for study. I am glad to see that so many
  find it in your hearts to be here in this school; it is a very hopeful
  sign. I think it has in it the promise that you will each become a
  useful citizen in this country. Pluck and energy are two essential
  elements. A boy wants to be something. With pluck and energy success
  is assured. There is a day of hope above every one of you.

  I bid you good cheer and would offer encouragement to every one of
  you, and I know every one of you may be useful and honorable citizens
  in this community, whose officers have taken the interest to organize
  this school for your benefit. I very sincerely and earnestly wish
  you God-speed. Stick to your studies and don't neglect to acquire a
  needful education, and you may one day occupy the positions of honor
  which are held by those to-day in charge of the affairs of your city.




ATLANTA, APRIL 16.


On the morning of the 16th the President's party bade adieu to Atlanta.
More than 10,000 people were present. Mayor Hemphill invited the
President to the rear platform of the train and presented him to the
assemblage. In response to their cheers he said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I desire, in parting from you, to give
  public expression of my satisfaction and enjoyment in my brief visit
  to Atlanta. I saw this city once under circumstances of a very
  unfavorable character. I did not think I would like it, although we
  were making great efforts to get it. [Laughter.] I am glad after all
  these years to see the great prosperity and development that has come
  to you. I think I am able to understand some of the influences that
  are at the bottom of it, and I am sure that I look into the faces of
  a community that, whatever their differences may have been, however
  they viewed the question of the war when it was upon us, can have but
  one thought as to what was best. We can all say with the Confederate
  soldier who carried a gun for what seemed to him to be right, that God
  knew better than any of us what was best for the country and for the
  world.

  You are thankful for what He has wrought and chiefly for
  emancipation. It has opened up to diversified industries these States
  that were otherwise exclusively agricultural, and made it possible
  for you not only to raise cotton, but to spin and weave it, and has
  made Georgia such a State as it could not have been under the old
  conditions. I am sure we have many common purposes, and as God shall
  give us power to see truth and right, let us do our duty, and, while
  exacting all our own rights, let us bravely and generously give every
  other man his equal rights before the law. [Cheers.]

  Thanking you for your reception, which has been warm and
  hospitable, I go from you very grateful for your kindness and very
  full of hope for your future.

  I cannot wish more than that those enterprising land-owners whose
  work in grading and laying new additions I saw yesterday will realize
  all their hopes. I am very sure if that is done Atlanta will not long
  be rated the second city of the South. [Cheers.]

At the conclusion of the President's address there were many calls for
Mr. Wanamaker. These finally brought the Postmaster-General to the
platform, who said:

  That man is unfortunate who is called on to speak after a President.
  But at such a moment as this, parting from people who in a single
  night have shown so much kindness and good-fellowship, it is not
  difficult to return at least our grateful thanks for your most
  generous welcome. Of all objects in your city I have looked with most
  interest upon the house where a great light had gone out, and felt
  again the common sorrow in the absence of Henry Grady, a man whose
  life and influences were larger than Atlanta. The words he spoke and
  the principles he stood for cannot be forgotten. If we can but learn
  to know each other and understand each other there will be fewer
  differences than might be supposed. By more frequent intercourse and a
  fairer consideration of each other we should rise to a higher level of
  happiness. I wish we had come sooner and could stay longer. [Cheers.]




TALLAPOOSA, GEORGIA, APRIL 16.


The city of Tallapoosa was bedecked with flags and bunting in honor of
the distinguished visitors, and gave the President a cordial reception.
Mayor A. J. Head and the following representative citizens were among
those who greeted the Chief Executive: James H. Rineard, Walker Brock,
U. G. Brock, J. A. Head, R. M. Strickland, J. C. Parker, W. T. King, R.
G. Bently, T. J. Barrett, J. T. Tuggle, R. J. McBride, G. W. Bullard, C.
Tallafario, J. A. Burns, J. R. Knapp, C. W. Fox, M. C. Reeve, M. Munson,
W. W. Summerlin, S. J. Cason, J. H. Davis, S. White, A. Hass, T. L.
Dougherty, G. A. Stickney, N. L. Hutchens, O. F. Sampson, H. Martin, M.
C. Haiston, G. W. Tumlin, and J. C. Murrey.

Responding to the welcoming cheers the President addressed the assembly
as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--This large assemblage of people from this new
  and energetic city is very pleasant, and I thank you for the welcome
  that it implies. All of these evidences of extending industry are
  extremely pleasing to me as I observe them. They furnish employment to
  men; they imply comfortable homes, contented families, a safe social
  organization, and are the strength of the Nation.

  I am glad to see that these enterprises that are taking the ores
  from the earth and adapting them to the uses of civilization have
  not been started here unaccompanied by that more important work--the
  work of gathering the children into the schools and instructing them,
  that they in their turn may be useful men and women. [Applause.] I am
  glad to greet these little ones this morning; it is a cheerful sight.
  We are soon to lay down the work of life and the responsibilities of
  citizenship, these mothers are soon to quit the ever-recurring and
  never-ending work of the home and give it into new hands.

  It is of the utmost consequence that these little ones be trained
  in mind and taught the fear of God and a benevolent regard for their
  fellow-men, in order that their lives and social relations may be
  peaceful and happy. We are citizens of one country, having one flag
  and one destiny. We are starting upon a new era of development, and I
  hope this development is to keep pace and to be the promoting cause of
  a very perfect unification of our people. [Cheers.]

  We have a Government whose principles are very simple and very
  popular. The whole theory of our institutions is that, pursuing those
  election methods which we have prescribed under the Constitution,
  every man shall exercise freely the right that the suffrage law
  confides to him, and that the majority, if it has expressed its will,
  shall conclude the issue for us all. There is no other foundation.
  This was the enduring base upon which the fathers of our country
  placed our institutions. Let us always keep them there. Let us press
  the debate in our campaigns as to what the law should be; but let us
  keep faith and submit with the reverence and respect which are due to
  the law when once lawfully enacted. [Applause.]

  The development which is coming to you in these regions of the
  South is marvellous. In ten years you increased your production of
  iron about 300 per cent.--nearly a million and a quarter of tons--and
  you have only begun to open these mines and to put these ores to the
  process of reduction. Now, I want to leave this thought with you: In
  the old plantations of the South you got everything from somewhere
  else; why not make it all yourselves? [Cheers.]




ANNISTON, ALABAMA, APRIL 16.


Many thousands greeted the President on his arrival at Anniston. The
Reception Committee consisted of Mayor James Noble, J. W. Lapsley, H. W.
Bailey, T. G. Garrett, B. F. Cassady, John J. Mickle, C. H. Camfield, J.
J. Willett, J. C. Sproull, R. H. Cobb, I. Finch, and Alex. S. Thweatt.
The committee appointed by the Alabama State Sunday-School Association,
then in session, was: Joseph Hardie, Geo. B. Eager, P. P. Winn, M.
J. Greene, and C. W. O'Hare. On the part of the colored citizens the
Committee of Reception was: Rev. W. H. McAlpine, Wm. J. Stevens, S. E.
Moses, Rev. J. F. Fitspatrick, and Rev. Jas. W. Brown. Daniel Tyler
Post, G. A. R., H. Rosenbaum, Commander, G. B. Randolph acting Adjutant,
also participated. The Hon. John M. McKleroy delivered the address of
welcome, followed by Wm. J. Stevens in behalf of the colored people.

President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Fellow-citizens_--I very much regret that I am able to make so
  little return to you for this cordial manifestation of your respect
  and friendship; and yet, even in these few moments which I am able to
  spend with you, I hope I shall gather and possibly be able to impart
  some impulse that may be mutually beneficial. I am glad to see with
  the eye that of which I have kept informed--the great development
  which is taking place in the mineral regions of the Southern States.

  I remember, as a boy, resident upon one of the great tributaries
  of the Mississippi, how the agricultural products of those States,
  the corn and provisions raised upon the fertile acres of the Ohio and
  Mississippi valleys, were marketed in the South. The old broad-horn
  took its way down the Mississippi, stopping at the plantations to
  sell the provisions upon which the people of the South were largely
  sustained. The South was then essentially a plantation region,
  producing one or two great staples that found a ready market in the
  world, but dependent for its implements of industry and domestic
  utensils upon the States of the North Mississippi Valley.

  I am glad all this is changed, that you are realizing the benefits
  of diversified agriculture, and that the production upon your farms of
  the staples which you once bought elsewhere is largely increasing; and
  I am glad that to diversified agriculture you have also added these
  great mechanical pursuits which have brought into your communities
  artisans and laborers who take from the adjacent farms the surplus of
  your fertile lands. [Cheers.] There has been received in the South
  since the war not less than $8,000,000,000 for cotton, and while I
  rejoice in that, I am glad to know that in this generous region there
  are near 100,000 acres devoted to raising watermelons. [Laughter.]

  No farmer, certainly no planter in the old time, would have
  consented to sell watermelons. You are learning that things which were
  small and despised have come to be great elements in your commerce.
  Now your railroads make special provision for the transportation of a
  crop which brings large wealth to your people.

  I mention this as a good illustration of the changing conditions
  into which you are entering. You are realizing the benefits of home
  markets for what you produce, and I am sure you will unite with me
  in those efforts which we ought to make, not only to fill our own
  markets with all that this great Nation of 65,000,000 needs, but to
  reach out to other markets and enter into competition with the world
  for them. [Cheers.] This we shall do, and with all this mechanical
  and commercial development we shall realize largely that condition of
  unification of heart and interest to which those who have spoken for
  you have so eloquently alluded. [Cheers.]

  And now, wishing that the expectations of all who are interested in
  this stirring young city may be realized, that all your industries
  may be active and profitable, I add the wish that those gentler and
  kindlier agencies of the school and church, of a friendly social life,
  may always pervade and abide with you as a community. [Cheers.]




BIRMINGHAM, ALABAMA, APRIL 16.


Large delegations came from Mobile, Selma, Montgomery, Sheffield, and
other points in Alabama, to participate in the grand ovation tendered
President Harrison and his party at Birmingham on April 16. Gov.
Thomas G. Jones and the following members of his staff welcomed the
presidential party at Henryellen: Adjt.-Gen. Charles B. Jones, Col. F.
L. Pettus, Col. Eugene Stollenwerck, Col. M. P. Le Grand, Col. W. W.
Quarles, Col. B. L. Holt, Lieut. James B. Erwin, and J. K. Jackson,
Secretary to the Governor. The Governor's party was accompanied by five
members from the Citizens' Committee: Col. E. T. Taliaferro, Rufus N.
Rhodes, J. W. Hughes, R. L. Houston, and C. A. Johnston.

On arrival at Birmingham, in the afternoon, the President was greeted by
an enormous gathering and formally welcomed by Mayor A. O. Lane at the
head of the following distinguished committee: H. M. Caldwell, Joseph
F. Johnston, B. L. Hibbard, William Youngblood, W. J. Cameron, J. A.
Van Hoose, R. H. Pearson, E. H. Barron, M. M. Williams, J. O. Wright,
James Weatherly, Chappell Cory, Louis Saks, D. D. Smith, J. P. Mudd,
Charles M. Shelley, Paul Giacopazzi, James A. Going, Joe Frank, T. H.
Spencer, P. G. Bowman, J. M. Martin, G. W. Hewitt, T. T. Hillman, E.
Soloman, F. P. O'Brien, Lewis M. Parsons, Robert Jemison, John McQueen,
Geo. L. Morris, B. Steiner, Mack Sloss, J. A. Yeates, J. M. Handley,
Fergus W. McCarthy, E. V. Gregory, F. H. Armstrong, Geo. M. Morrow,
Thomas Seddon, E. W. Rucker, W. H. Graves, Gus Shillinger, M. T. Porter,
Edwin C. Campbell, Eugene F. Enslen, R. L. Thornton, Charles Whelan,
W. S. Brown, John M. Cartin, Wm. M. Bethea, I. R. Hochstadter, John W.
Johnston, Wm. Vaughn, Jas. E. Webb, and Robert Warnock. George A. Custer
Post, G. A. R., commanded by Ass't Adjt.-Gen. W. J. Pender, escorted
the President on the march through the city. The following officers
participated: W. H. Hunter, Department Commander; F. G. Sheppard, Past
Department Commander; William Snyder, Commander; A. A. Tyler, Senior
Vice-Commander; Henry Asa N. Ballard, Surgeon; Edward Birchenough,
Assistant Quartermaster-General; A. W. Fulghum, Past Commander; and John
Mackenzie, Officer of the Day.

Both the Governor and the Mayor delivered eloquent addresses of welcome,
to which President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Governor Jones, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens_--The noise of
  your industries will not stay itself, I fear, sufficiently to enable
  me to make myself heard by many in this immense throng that has
  gathered to welcome us. I judge from what we have seen as we neared
  your station that we have here at Birmingham the largest and most
  enthusiastic concourse of people that has met us since we left the
  national capital. [Great and prolonged cheering.] For all this I am
  deeply grateful. The rapidity with which we must pursue this journey
  will not allow us to look with any detail into the great enterprises
  which cluster about your city; but if we shall only have opportunity
  to see for a moment these friendly faces and listen to these friendly
  words, we shall carry away that which will be invaluable, and, I
  trust, by the friendly exchange of greetings, may leave something
  to you that is worth cherishing. [Great cheering.] I have read of
  the marvellous development which, in the last few years, has been
  stirring the solitude of these southern mountains, and I remember that
  not many years after the war, when I had resumed my law practice at
  Indianapolis, I was visited by a gentleman, known, I expect, to all of
  you, upon some professional business. He came to pursue a collection
  claim against a citizen of Indiana; but he seemed to be more
  interested in talking about Birmingham than anything else. [Laughter
  and cheers.] That man was Colonel Powell, one of the early promoters
  of your city. [Cheers.] I listened to his story of the marvellous
  wealth of iron and coal that was stored in this region; of their
  nearness to each other, and to the limestone necessary for smelting;
  to his calculations as to the cheapness with which iron could be
  produced here, and his glowing story of the great city that was to be
  reared, with a good deal of incredulity. I thought he was a visionary;
  but I have regretted ever since that I did not ask him to pay me my
  fee in town lots in Birmingham. [Laughter and cheers.]

  My countrymen, we thought the war a great calamity, and so it was.
  The destruction of life and of property was sad beyond expression;
  and yet we can see now that God led us through that Red Sea to a
  development in material prosperity and to a fraternity that was
  not otherwise possible. [Cheers.] The industries that have called
  to your midst so many toiling men are always and everywhere the
  concomitants of freedom. Out of all this freedom from the incubus
  of slavery the South has found a new industrial birth. Once almost
  wholly agricultural, you are now not the less fruitful in crops, but
  you have added all this. [Cheers.] You have increased your production
  of cotton, and have added an increase in ten years of nearly 300 per
  cent. in the production of iron. You have produced three-fourths
  of the cotton crop of the world, and it has brought you since the
  war about $8,000,000,000 of money to enrich your people. But as
  yet you are spinning in the South only 8 per cent, of it. Why not,
  with the help we will give you in New England and the North, spin
  it all? [Cheers.] Why not establish here cotton mills that shall
  send, not the crude agricultural product to other markets, but the
  manufactured product? [Cheers.] Why not, while supplying 65,000,000
  of people, reach out and take a part we have not had in the commerce
  of the world? [Cheers.] I believe we are to see now a renaissance
  in American prosperity and in the up-building again of our American
  merchant marine. [Cheers.] I believe that these Southern ports that so
  favorably look out with invitations to the States of Central and South
  America shall yet see our fleets carrying the American flag and the
  products of Alabama to the markets of South America. [Great cheering.]

  In all this we are united; we may differ as to method, but if
  you will permit me I will give an illustration to show how we have
  been dealing with this shipping question. I can remember when no
  wholesale merchant ever sent a drummer into the field. He said to his
  customers, "Come to my store and buy;" but competition increased and
  the enterprising merchant started out men to seek customers; and so
  his fellow-merchant was put to the choice to put travelling men into
  the field or to go out of business. It seems to me, whatever we may
  think of the policy of aiding our steamship lines, that since every
  other great nation does it, we must do it or stay out of business,
  for we have pretty much gone out. [Cheers.] I am glad to reciprocate
  with the very fulness of my heart every fraternal expression that has
  fallen from the lips of these gentlemen who have addressed me in your
  behalf. [Cheers.] I have not been saved from mistakes; probably I
  shall not be. I am sure of but one thing--I can declare that I have
  simply at heart the glory of the American Nation and the good of all
  its people. [Great and prolonged cheering.] I thank these companies
  of the State militia, one of whom I recognize as having done me the
  honor to attend the inaugural ceremony, for their presence. They are
  deserving, sir [to the Governor], of your encouragement and that of
  the State of Alabama. They are the reserve army of the United States.
  It is our policy not to have a large regular army, but to have a
  trained militia that, in any exigency, will step to the defence of the
  country; and if that exigency shall ever arise--which God forbid--I
  know that you would respond as quickly and readily as any other State.
  [Cheers.] [The Governor: "You will find all Alabama at your back,
  sir!"] [Continued cheering.]

  I am glad to know that in addition to all this business you are
  doing you are also attending to education and to those things that
  conduce to social order. The American home is the one thing we cannot
  afford to lose out of the American life. [Cheers.] As long as we have
  pure homes and God-fearing, order-loving fathers and mothers to rear
  the children that are given to them, and to make these homes the
  abodes of order, cleanliness, piety, and intelligence, the American
  society and the American Union are safe [Great cheering.]

After the parade the President's party, the Governor and staff, and the
citizens' Reception Committee sat down to luncheon. On the right of
the President was Mrs. Jones, wife of the Governor; on his left, Mrs.
Lane, wife of the Mayor. Mr. Rufus N. Rhodes proposed the health of the
President of the United States, to which General Harrison responded
briefly, saying:

  We have seen something of the marvellous material growth of
  Birmingham, and seen evidence of the great richness of your "black
  diamonds" and your iron, and now we see something of your home life.
  The many beautiful women whom we have had the happiness to meet, and
  some of whom are now with us, are the angels of your homes, and right
  glad we are to be favored by their presence. After all, it is their
  homes which make a people great. We are glad to be here; for, really,
  you overwhelm us with kindness. [Long-continued applause.]




MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE, APRIL 17.


The presidential party arrived at Memphis early on the morning of the
17th and were greeted by 10,000 people. The committee for the reception
and entertainment of President Harrison and his guests comprised the
following prominent citizens: Lucas W. Clapp, president of the taxing
district of Memphis, Chairman; H. M. Neely, M. Cooper, J. P. Jordan,
B. M. Stratton, R. C. Graves, D. P. Hadden, R. P. Patterson, Wm. M.
Randolph, John K. Speed, John R. Godwin, Sam Tate, Jr., N. W. Speers,
Jr., Josiah Patterson, W. J. Crawford, Martin Kelly, John Loague, J.
M. Keating, J. Harvey Mathes, A. B. Pickett, W. J. Smith, Emerson
Etheridge, T. J. Lathan, A. D. Gwynne, R. D. Frayser, J. T. Fargason,
Samuel W. Hawkins, T. J. Graham, B. M. Estes, S. R. Montgomery, W. A.
Collier, A. C. Treadwell, F. M. Norfleet, Alfred G. Tuther, W. D. Beard,
S. H. Haines, R. J. Morgan, Louis Erb, Dr. J. P. Alban, W. A. Gage,
J. N. Snowden, John T. Moss, Thomas F. Tobin, J. S. Robinson, James
Ralston, L. B. Eaton, John W. Dillard, J. M. Semmes, M. T. Williamson,
Andrew J. Harris, R. S. Capers, L. H. Estes, J. J. DuBose, J. B. Clough,
J. E. Bigelow, George Arnold, T. B. Edgington, Luke E. Wright, D. T.
Porter, J. T. Pettit, Napoleon Hill, E. S. Hammond, Wm. R. Moore, G. C.
Matthews, Colton Greene, Isham G. Harris, J. A. Taylor, P. M. Winters,
Holmes Cummins, E. Lowenstein, J. S. Menken, A. Vaccaro, N. M. Jones,
R. B. Snowden, W. M. Farrington, Barney Hughes, J. H. Smith, Noland
Fontaine, J. H. Martin, J. C. Neely, Robert Gates, James W. Brown, G.
E. Dunbar, J. W. Falls, S. C. Toof, W. H. Carroll, S. P. Read, H. G.
Harrington, H. F. Dix, J. S. Galloway, T. W. Brown, H. J. Lynn, J. W.
Person, H. B. Cullen, S. W. Green, P. J. Quigley, T. J. Brogan, M. C.
Gallaway, W. E. McGuire, Ralph Davis, J. J. Williams, T. A. Hamilton,
E. B. McHenry, George B. Peters, John L. Norton, W. H. Bates, M. T.
Garvin, S. H. Dunscomb, F. H. White, and R. D. Jordan.

The following military committee also assisted: Gen. S. F. Carnes,
Chairman; Col. Kellar Anderson, Col. Hugh Pettit, Maj. J. F. Peters,
Col. W. F. Taylor, Col. L. W. Finley, Gen. A. J. Vaughn, Gen. G. W.
Gordon, and Gen. R. F. Patterson.

Chairman Clapp made the address of welcome. President Harrison responded
as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The name of the city of Memphis was familiar
  to me in my early boyhood. Born and reared upon one of the tributaries
  of the great river upon which your city is located, these river marts
  of commerce were the familiar trading-posts of the farmers of the Ohio
  Valley. I well remember when, on the shores of father's farm, the old
  "broad-horn" was loaded from the hay-press and the corn-crib to market
  with the plantations along the Lower Mississippi. I remember to have
  heard from him and the neighbors who constituted the crew of those
  pioneer craft of river navigation of the perils of these great waters;
  of the snags and caving banks of the Lower Mississippi. In those times
  these States were largely supplied with grain and forage from the
  Northwestern States. Here you were giving your attention to one or two
  great staple products, for which you found a large foreign market. I
  congratulate you that the progress of events has made you not less
  agricultural, but has diversified your agriculture so that you are not
  now wholly dependent upon these great staples for the income of your
  farms.

  The benefits of this diversification are very great and the change
  symbolizes more than we at first realize. This change means that we
  are now coming to understand that meanness cannot be predicated of
  any honest industry. I rejoice that you are adding to diversified
  agriculture diversified manufacturing pursuits; that you are turning
  your thought to compressing and spinning cotton as well as raising it.
  I know no reason why these cotton States, that produce 75 per cent. of
  the cotton of the world, should not spin the greater portion of it. I
  know no reason why they should export it as raw material, rather than
  as a manufactured product, holding in their midst the profits of this
  transformation of the raw material to the finished product. [Applause.]

  I hope it may be so. I see evidence that the people are turning
  their attention to new industries, and are bringing into the midst of
  these farming communities a large population of artisans and laborers
  to consume at your own doors the product of your farms. I am glad that
  a liberal Government is making this great waterway to the sea safe and
  capable of an uninterrupted use. I am glad that it is here making the
  shores of your own city convenient and safe, and that it is opening,
  north and south, an uninterrupted and cheap transportation for the
  products of these lands that lie along this great system of rivers. I
  am glad that it is bringing you in contact with ports of the Gulf that
  look out with near and inviting aspect toward a great trade in South
  America that we shall soon possess. I am glad to believe that these
  great river towns will speedily exchange their burdens with American
  ships at the mouth of the Mississippi to be transported to foreign
  ports under the flag of our country. [Great cheering.]

  This Government of ours is a compact of the people to be governed by
  a majority, expressing itself by lawful methods. [Cheers.] Everything
  in this country is to be brought to the measure of the law. I propose
  no other rule, either as an individual or as a public officer. I
  cannot in any degree let down this rule [cries of "No!" and cheers]
  without violating my official duty. There must be no other supremacy
  than that of lawful majorities. We must all come at last to this
  conclusion--that the supremacy of the law is the one supremacy in this
  country of ours. [Cheers.]

  Now, my fellow citizens, I thank you for this warm and magnificent
  demonstration of your respect, accepting cordially the expression of
  the chief of your city Government that you are a sincere, earnest,
  patriotic, devoted people. I beg to leave with you the suggestion that
  each in his place shall do what he can to maintain social order and
  public peace; that the lines here and everywhere shall be between the
  well-disposed and the ill-disposed.

  The effort of speech to this immense throng is too great for me.
  I beg to assure you that I carry from the great war no sentiment of
  ill-will to any. [Cheers.] I am glad that the Confederate soldier,
  confessing that defeat which has brought him blessings that would
  have been impossible otherwise, has been taken again into full
  participation in the administration of the Government; that no
  penalties, limitations, or other inflictions rest upon him. I have
  taken and can always take the hand of a brave Confederate soldier with
  confidence and respect. [Great cheering.]

  I would put him under one yoke only, and that is the yoke that the
  victors in that struggle bore when they went home and laid off their
  uniforms--the yoke of the law and the obligation always to obey it.
  [Cheers.] Upon that platform, without distinction between the victors
  and the vanquished, we enter together upon possibilities as a people
  that we cannot overestimate. I believe the Nation is lifting itself
  to a new life; that this flag shall float on unfamiliar seas, and
  that this coming prosperity will be equally shared by all our people.
  [Prolonged cheering.]




LITTLE ROCK, ARKANSAS, APRIL 17.


As the presidential party crossed the Mississippi they were met on the
Arkansas shore by Gov. James P. Eagle and wife, Judge John A. Williams,
Mayor H. L. Fletcher, James Mitchell, Col. Logan H. Roots, Mrs. Judge
Caldwell, Mrs. C. C. Waters, Mrs. Wm. G. Whipple, Mrs. W. C. Ratcliffe,
Miss Jean Loughborough, and Miss Fannie Mitchell. Arriving at Little
Rock, late in the afternoon, the President was welcomed by Hon. Josiah
H. Shinn, R. A. Edgerton, Chas. C. Waters, B. D. Caldwell, W. A. Clark,
H. F. Roberts, T. H. Jones, and the other members of the Committee of
Reception. McPherson and Ord posts, G. A. R., in charge of Marshal
O. M. Spellman, Lee Clough, and C. Altenberg, acted as escort to the
President, accompanied by the McCarthy Light Guards. The parade was in
charge of Grand Marshal Zeb Ward, Jr., assisted by Col. W. T. Kelley,
Horace G. Allis, and Oscar Davis. The Lincoln Club, commanded by P.
Raleigh and P. C. Dooley, participated in the reception. At the State
House Governor Eagle formally welcomed the distinguished travellers.

President Harrison replied:

  _Governor Eagle and Fellow-citizens_--No voice is large enough
  to compass this immense throng. But my heart is large enough to
  receive all the gladness and joy of your great welcome here to-day.
  [Applause.] I thank you one and all for your presence, for the kind
  words of greeting which have been spoken by your Governor, and for
  these kind faces turned to me. In all this I see a great fraternity;
  in all this I feel new impulses to a better discharge of every public
  and every private duty. I cannot but feel that in consequence of this
  brief contact with you to-day I shall carry away a better knowledge
  of your State, its resources, its capabilities, and of the generous
  warm-heartedness of its people. We have a country whose greatness this
  meeting evidences, for there are here assembled masses of independent
  men. The commonwealth rests upon the free suffrage of its citizens
  and their devotion to the Constitution, and the flag is the bulwark
  of its life. [Cheers.] We have agreed, I am sure, that we will do no
  more fighting among ourselves. [Cries of "Good! good!" and cheers.]
  I may say to you confidentially that Senator Jones and I agreed
  several years ago, after observing together the rifle practice at Fort
  Snelling, that shooting had been reduced to such accuracy that war was
  too dangerous for either of us to engage in it. [Laughter and cheers.]
  But, my friends, I cannot prolong this talk. Once already to-day
  in the dampness of this atmosphere I have attempted to speak, and
  therefore you will allow me to conclude by wishing for your State, for
  its Governor and all its public officers, for all its citizens without
  exception, high or humble, the blessing of social order, peace, and
  prosperity--the fruits of intelligence and piety. [Great cheering.]




TEXARKANA, ARKANSAS, APRIL 17.


Notwithstanding it was nearly midnight when the presidential train
reached Texarkana, about 2,000 citizens were present. Foremost in the
movement to give a fitting reception to the President were: George H.
Langsdale, Robert Langsdale, Richard Brunazzi, and Edward Donnelly.
Among other well-known citizens present were Lyman S. Roach, Commander
of Dick Yates Post, G. A. R.; Ira A. Church, J. A. Mifflin, Wm.
Rhinders, W. F. Loren, W. W. Shaw, Fred A. Church, J. P. Ashcraft, Wm.
H. Bush, A. B. Matson, W. W. De Prato, T. P. McCalla, J. W. Hatcher,
John McKenna, Peter Gable, John Mayher, Martin Foster, J. K. Langsdale,
and F. L. Schuster.

The President spoke briefly and said:

  Having had notice of your request that we stop here for a few
  moments, I have remained up in order to thank you for your expressed
  interest and for this very large and cordial demonstration. I have
  spoken several times during the day, and am sure you will excuse
  me from attempting now, at midnight, to make a speech. I hope that
  prosperity is here and that it may abide with you. Thanking you again,
  I bid you good-night.




PALESTINE, TEXAS, APRIL 18.


The first stop in the Lone Star State was at Palestine, where the
President received a royal welcome, the population of the city turning
out to do him honor. His excellency Gov. James S. Hogg cordially
greeted the President at this point. Hon. John H. Reagan, Hon. Geo. A.
Wright, Mayor of Palestine, and the City Council in a body, constituted
the Committee of Reception, together with the following prominent
residents: Capt. T. T. Gammage, A. H. Bailey, Geo. E. Dilley, N. R.
Royall, W. C. Kendall, A. Teah, J. R. Hearne, J. W. Ozment, P. W. Ezell,
O. B. Sawyers, G. W. Burkitt, W. M. Lacy, Henry Ash, A. C. Green,
A. R. Howard, A. L. Bowers, D. W. Heath, Wm. Broyles, John J. Word,
E. R. Kersh, R. J. Wallace, J. M. Fullinwider, Rev. E. F. Fales and
Mrs. Fales, who welcomed her distinguished brother Postmaster-General
Wanamaker.

Governor Hogg made the formal address of welcome, to which the President
responded as follows:

  _Governor Hogg and Fellow-citizens_--It gives me pleasure to come
  this fresh morning into this great State--a kingdom without a king,
  an empire without an emperor, a State gigantic in proportions and
  matchless in resources, with diversified industries and infinite
  capacities to sustain a tremendous population and to bring to every
  home where industry abides prosperity and comfort. Such homes, I am
  sure, are represented here this morning--the American home, where the
  father abides in the respect and the mother in the deep love of the
  children that sit about the fireside; where all that makes us good
  is taught and the first rudiments of obedience to law, of orderly
  relations one to another, are put into the young minds. Out of this
  comes social order; on this rests the security of our country.
  The home is the training-school for American citizenship. There we
  learn to defer to others; selfishness is suppressed by the needs of
  those about us. There self-sacrifice, love, and willingness to give
  ourselves for others are born.

  I thank you that so many of you have come here this morning from
  such homes, and all of us are thankful together that peace rests upon
  our whole country. All of us have pledged ourselves that no sectional
  strife shall ever divide us, and that while abiding in peace with all
  the world we are, against all aggression, one mighty, united people.
  [Cheers.]

  I desire to assure you, my countrymen, that in my heart I make no
  distinction between our people anywhere. [Cheers.] I have a deep
  desire that everywhere in all our States there shall be that profound
  respect for the will of the majority, expressed by our voters, that
  shall bring constant peace into all our communities. It is very kind
  of you to come here this morning before breakfast. Perhaps you are
  initiating me into the Texas habit--is it so?--of taking something
  before breakfast. [Laughter and cheers.] This exhilarating draught of
  good-will you have given me this morning will not, I am sure, disturb
  either my digestion or comfort during this day. [Cheers.]




HOUSTON, TEXAS, APRIL 18.


The presidential party reached Houston at noon on April 18 and were
greeted by an enthusiastic assemblage estimated at 20,000. The welcoming
committee, headed by Mayor Scherffius, comprised the following-named
prominent citizens: Hon. Charles Stewart, Geo. A. Race, J. W. Temby,
Maj. R. B. Baer, A. K. Taylor, Col. John T. Brady, W. D. Cleveland,
D. C. Smith, C. Lombardi, Dr. E. F. Schmidt, Capt. J. C. Hutcheson,
T. W. House, S. K. Dick, W. B. Chew, James F. Dumble, R. B. Morris,
James A. Patton, Jr., A. P. Root, W. V. R. Watson, G. W. Kidd, G.
C. Felton, H. W. Garrow, Geo. E. Dickey, F. Halff, John F. Dickson,
E. W. Cave, Charles Dillingham, A. C. Herndon, J. W. Jones, D. M.
Angle, Geo. L. Porter, Rufus Cage, F. A. Rice, Dr. D. F. Stuart, and
President Mitchell, of the Commercial Club. Many prominent ladies of
the city participated in receiving and entertaining the ladies in the
presidential party.

Congressman Stewart introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Your faces all respond to the words of welcome
  which have been spoken in your behalf. We have been not only pleased
  but touched by the delicate and kindly expressions of regard which we
  have received since entering the State of Texas. I remained up last
  night until after midnight that I might not unconsciously pass into
  this great State, and I was called very early from my bed this morning
  to receive a draught of welcome, before I had breakfasted, from
  another Texas audience. You have a State whose greatness I think you
  have discovered.

  A stranger can hardly hope to point out to you that which you
  have not already known. Perhaps Virginia and Kentucky have been
  heard to say more about their respective States than Texas; but I
  think their voices are likely soon to be drowned by the enthusiastic
  and affectionate claims which you will present to the country for
  your great commonwealth. [Cheers.] You have the resources in some
  measure--in a great measure--of all the States gathered within your
  borders; a soil adapted to the production of all the cereals and
  grasses; and to this you add cotton, sugar, and tobacco. You are very
  rightly diversifying your crops, because the history of intelligent
  farming shows that as the crops are diversified the people prosper.

  All is not staked upon the success of a single crop. You do well,
  therefore, to raise cotton, sugar, and tobacco, and I am glad you are
  not neglecting cattle, sheep, hogs, corn, and all the cereals. We
  have been trying to do what we could from Washington to make for you
  a larger and better market for your enormous meat products. [Cheers.]
  We have felt that the restrictions imposed by some of the European
  governments could not be fairly justified upon the ground stated by
  them. Already the Secretary of Agriculture--himself a farmer, who has
  with his own hands wrought in all the work of the farm--has succeeded
  in procuring the removal of some of these injurious restrictions,
  and has announced to the country that exportation of cattle has
  increased 100 per cent. in the last year. [Cheers.] I beg to assure
  you that these interests will have the most careful attention from
  the Government at Washington and from our representatives at foreign
  courts. It is believed that we have now by legislation a system of
  sanitary inspection of our meat products that, when once put in
  operation and examined by the European governments, will remove the
  last excuse for the exclusion of our meats from those foreign states.

  Our time is so limited that I can scarcely say more than "thank
  you." We cannot at all repay you for this demonstration of welcome,
  but let me say that in all your prosperity I shall rejoice. I do
  desire that all our legislation and all our institutions and the
  combined energies of all our people shall work together for the common
  good of all our States and all our population. [Great cheering.] You
  have great resources of a material sort, and yet above all this I
  rejoice that the timely forethought of your public men has provided an
  unexampled school fund for the education of the children.

  These things that partake of the life that is spiritual are better
  after all than the material. Indeed, there can be no true prosperity
  in any State or community where they are not thoughtfully fostered.
  Good social order, respect for the law, regard for other men's rights,
  orderly, peaceful administration are the essential things in any
  community. [Cheers.]




GALVESTON, TEXAS, APRIL 18.


The President and his party, accompanied by Governor Hogg, arrived at
Galveston on the afternoon of Saturday, April 18, and were tendered
an ovation by the hospitable residents of the Island City. The
distinguished travellers were met at Houston by a committee of escort
consisting of Chairman Leo N. Levi, George Sealy, Julius Runge, R. B.
Hawley, W. F. Ladd, Col. R. G. Lowe, Maj. C. J. Allen, Aldermen C. M.
Mason and T. W. Jackson, D. D. Bryan, J. W. Burson, Mrs. R. L. Fulton,
Mrs. R. B. Hawley, Mrs. Aaron Blum, Mrs. W. F. Ladd, and Mrs. C. J.
Allen.

On arriving in the city the President was welcomed by the other members
of the Reception Committee, headed by Mayor Roger L. Fulton, the Board
of Aldermen, and the following prominent citizens: Leon Blum, R. S.
Willis, J. C. League, H. A. Landes, J. E. Wallis, Col. J. S. Rogers, P.
J. Willis, Robert Bornefeld, C. C. Sweeney, M. F. Mott, Albert Weis, M.
Lasker, J. Z. Miller, Fen Cannon, Col. John D. Rogers, J. N. Sawyer, W.
H. Sinclair, Joseph Cuney, Geo. Seeligson, Julius Weber, J. D. Skinner,
Thos. H. Sweeney, James Montgomery, F. L. Dana, James Moore, W. F.
Beers, J. H. Hutchings, Wm. H. Masters, M. W. Shaw, W. B. Denson, H.
B. Cullum, C. H. Rickert, W. B. Lockhart, U. Muller, F. Lammers, H. F.
Sproule, Judge C. L. Cleveland, Judge Wm. H. Stewart, R. T. Wheeler, N.
W. Cuney, Thomas W. Cain, Samuel Penland, R. G. Street, J. Lobit, D.
M. Erlich, C. M. Trueheart, L. Fellman, C. R. Reifel, Charles Vidor,
George Butler, W. Vowrinckle, Joe Owens, C. E. Angel, Rev. S. M. Bird,
Dr. A. W. Fly, Dr. J. T. Y. Paine, Dr. H. P. Cooke, J. R. Gibson, Howard
Carnes, Charles Maddox, Bishop Gallagher, Rev. A. T. Spaulding, A. B.
Tuller, Dr. J. D. Daviss, Rev. J. E. Edwards, A. B. Homer, Rev. Joseph
B. Sears, J. Singer, R. C. Johnson, J. W. Riddell, B. Tiernan, T. A.
Gary, John Focke, Joseph Scott, W. E. McDonald, Geo. Schneider, F. O.
Becker, Thomas Goggan, J. D. Sherwood, O. H. Cooper, E. O'C. MacInerney,
Thos. S. King, Robert Day, Daniel Buckley, J. J. Hanna, F. W. Fickett,
Wm. Selkirk, and J. A. Robertson.

Immediately following their arrival the presidential party, escorted by
Hon. Wm. H. Crain, Mr. Leon Blum, and other members of the Reception
Committee, enjoyed a trip about the harbor aboard one of the Mallory
line steamships, enabling them to view the extensive Government works
for deepening the channel at the entrance to the harbor. This excursion
was followed by a ride across the island amid a shower of flowers.

The parade was participated in by all the military and industrial
organizations of the city; also by the Odd Fellows, Knights of Pythias,
and other orders, and was a most imposing demonstration. The G. A. R.
veterans acted as a guard of honor to the President on the march, and
the day was just closing when the column arrived at the Beach Hotel,
on the very shore of the Gulf of Mexico, where the formal address of
welcome was ably delivered by Gen. T. N. Waul.

President Harrison's response was the longest speech of his trip, and
attracted wide-spread and favorable comment. He said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We close to-night a whole week of travel, a
  whole week of hand-shaking, a whole week of talking. I have before me
  10,000 miles of hand-shaking and speaking, and I am not, by reason of
  what this week has brought me, in voice to contend with the fine but
  rather strong Gulf breeze which pours in upon us to-night; and yet it
  comes to me laden with the fragrance of your welcome. [Cheers.] It
  comes with the softness, refreshment, and grace which have accompanied
  all my intercourse with the people of Texas. [Great cheering.]

  The magnificent and cordial demonstration which you have made in our
  honor to-day will always remain a bright and pleasant picture in my
  memory. [Great cheers.] I am glad to have been able to rest my eyes
  upon the city of Galveston. I am glad to have been able to traverse
  this harbor and to look upon that work which a liberal and united
  Government has inaugurated for your benefit and for the benefit of
  the Northwest. [Great and prolonged cheers.] I have always believed
  that it was one of the undisputed functions of the general Government
  to make these great waterways which penetrate our country and these
  harbors into which our shipping must come to receive the tribute of
  rail and river safe and easy of access.

  This ministering care should extend to our whole country, and I
  am glad that, adopting a policy with reference to the harbor work,
  here at least, which I insisted upon in a public message [great and
  prolonged cheering], the appropriation has been made adequate to a
  diligent and prompt completion of the work. [Great cheering.] In
  the past the Government has undertaken too many things at once, and
  its annual appropriations have been so inadequate that the work of
  the engineers was much retarded and often seriously damaged in the
  interval of waiting for fresh appropriations.

  It is a better policy, when a work has once been determined to be of
  national significance, that the appropriation should be sufficient to
  bring it speedily and without loss to a conclusion. [Great cheering.]
  I am glad that the scheme of the engineer for giving deep water to
  Galveston is thus to be prosecuted.

  I have said some of our South Atlantic and Gulf ports occupy a most
  favorable position for the new commerce toward which we are reaching
  out our hands, and which is reaching out its hands to us. [Great
  cheering.] I am an economist in the sense that I would not waste
  one dollar of public money, but I am not an economist in the sense
  that I would leave incomplete or suffer to lag any great work highly
  promotive of the true interests of our people. [Great cheering.]

  We are great enough and rich enough to reach forward to grander
  conceptions than have entered the minds of some of our statesmen in
  the past. If you are content, I am not, that the nations of Europe
  shall absorb nearly the entire commerce of these near sister republics
  that lie south of us. It is naturally in large measure ours--ours by
  neighborhood, ours by nearness of access, ours by that sympathy that
  binds a hemisphere without a king. [Cheers.]

  The inauguration of the Three Americas Congress, or more properly
  the American Conference, the happy conduct of that meeting, the
  wise and comprehensive measures which were suggested by it, with
  the fraternal and kindly spirit that was manifested by our southern
  neighbors, has stimulated a desire in them and in our people for a
  larger intercourse of commerce and of friendship. The provisions of
  the bill passed at the last session looking to a reciprocity of trade
  not only met with my official approval when I signed the bill, but
  with my zealous promotion before the bill was reported. [Great and
  prolonged cheering.]

  Its provision concerning reciprocity is that we have placed upon our
  free list sugar, tea, coffee and hides, and have said to those nations
  from whom we receive these great staples: Give us free access to your
  ports for an equivalent amount of our produce in exchange, or we will
  reimpose duties upon the articles named. The law leaves it wholly to
  the Executive to negotiate these arrangements. It does not need that
  they shall take the form of a treaty.

  They need not be submitted for the concurrence of the Senate. It
  only needs that we, having made our offer, shall receive their offer
  in return; and when they shall have made up an acceptable schedule of
  articles produced by us that shall have free access to their ports,
  a proclamation by the President closes the whole business. [Cheers.]
  Already one treaty with that youngest of the South American republics,
  the great republic of Brazil, has been negotiated and proclaimed. I
  think, without disclosing an Executive secret, I may tell you that
  the arrangement with Brazil is not likely to abide in lonesomeness
  much longer [great and prolonged cheering]; that others are to follow,
  and that as a result of these trade arrangements the products of
  the United States--our meats, our breadstuffs, and certain lines of
  manufactured goods--are to find free or favored access to the ports of
  many of these South and Central American States. All the States will
  share in these benefits. We have had some analysis of the manifests
  of some of our steamers now sailing to South American ports, and in a
  single steamer it was found that twenty-five States contributed to the
  cargo.

  But we shall need something more. We shall need American steamships
  to carry American goods to these ports. [Great cheering.] The last
  Congress passed a bill appropriating about $1,500,000, and authorized
  the Postmaster-General to contract with steamship companies for a
  period not exceeding ten years for the carrying of the United States
  mail. The foreign mail service is the only mail service out of which
  the Government has been making a net profit. We do not make a profit
  out of our land service.

  There is an annual deficiency which my good friend the
  Postmaster-General has been trying very hard to reduce or wipe out.
  The theory of our mail service is that it is for the people, that we
  are not to make a profit out of it, that we are to give them as cheap
  postage as is possible. We are, many of us, looking forward to a time
  when we shall have one-cent postage in this country. [Cheers.] We have
  been so close and penurious in dealing with our ships in the carrying
  of foreign mails that we have actually made revenues out of that
  business, not having spent for it what we have received from it. Now
  we propose to change that policy and to make more liberal contracts
  with American lines carrying American mail. [Cheers.]

  Some one may say we ought not to go into this business, that it is
  subsidy. But, my friend, every other great nation of the world has
  been doing it and is doing it to-day. Great Britain and France have
  built up their great steamship lines by Government aid, and it seems
  to me our attitude with reference to that is aptly portrayed by an
  illustration I mentioned the other day. In olden times no wholesale
  merchant sent out travelling men to solicit custom, but he stood
  in his own store and waited for his customers. But presently some
  enterprising merchant began to send out men with their samples to seek
  the trade, to save the country buyer the cost of the trip to New York
  or Philadelphia, until finally that practice has become universal, and
  these active, intelligent travelling men are scurrying this country
  over, pushing and soliciting in their several lines of business. Now
  imagine some conservative merchant in New York saying to himself: "All
  this is wrong; the trade ought to come to me." If he should refuse to
  adopt these modern methods what would be the result? He must adopt
  the new methods or go out of business. We have been refusing to adopt
  the universal method of our competitors in commerce to stimulate
  their shipping interest and have gone out of the business. [Laughter
  and cheers.] Encouraged by what your spokesman has said to-night,
  I venture to declare that I am in favor of going into business
  again, and when it is re-established I hope Galveston will be in the
  partnership. [Great cheers.]

  It has been the careful study of the Postmaster-General in preparing
  to execute the law to which I have referred to see how much increase
  in routes and ships we could secure by it. We have said to the few
  existing American lines: You must not treat this appropriation as
  a plate of soup, to be divided and consumed. You must give us new
  lines, new ships, increased trips, and new ports of call. Already the
  steamship lines are looking over the routes to see what they can do,
  with a view of increasing their tonnage and establishing new lines.

  The Postmaster-General has invited the attention and suggestion
  of all the boards of trade of all our seaboard cities. Undoubtedly
  you have received such a letter. This appropriation is for one year;
  what the future is to be must depend upon the deliberate judgment of
  the people. If during my term of office they shall strike down a law
  that I believe to be beneficial or destroy its energy by withholding
  appropriations, I shall bow to their will, but I shall feel great
  disappointment if we do not make an era for the revival of American
  commerce. I do much want that the time shall come when our citizens
  living in temporary exile in foreign ports shall now and then see
  steaming into these distant ports a fine modern man-of-war, flying the
  United States flag [cheers], with the best modern guns on her deck,
  and a brave American crew in her forecastle. [Cheers.] I want, also,
  that in these ports, so long unfamiliar with the American flag, there
  shall again be found our steamships and our sailing vessels flying the
  flag that we all love, and carrying from our shores the products that
  these men of toil have brought to them to exchange for the products of
  other climes.

  I think we should add to all this, and happily it is likely to
  be accomplished by individual efforts, the early completion of the
  Nicaragua Canal. [Cheers.] The Pacific coast should no longer be found
  by sea only by the passage of the Horn. The short route should be
  opened, and it will be, and then with this wondrous stirring among the
  people of all our States, this awakening to new business plans and
  more careful and economical work, there will come great prosperity to
  all our people. Texas will spin more of the cotton that she raises.

  The great States of the South will be in discontent with the old
  condition that made them simply agricultural States, and will rouse
  themselves to compete with the older manufacturing States of the North
  and East. [Cheers.] The vision I have, all the thoughts I have of this
  matter embrace all the States and all my countrymen. I do not think of
  it as a question of party; I think of it as a great American question.
  [Cheers.] By the invitation of the address which was made to me I have
  freely spoken my mind to you on these topics. I hope I have done so
  with no offence or impropriety. [Cries of "No, no!" and cheers.]

  I would not on an occasion so full of general good feeling as this
  obtrude anything that should induce division or dissent. For all
  who do dissent I have the most respectful tolerance. The views I
  hold are the result of some thought and investigation, and as they
  are questions of public concern I confidently submit them to the
  arbitrament of brave and enlightened American suffrage. [Applause and
  cheers.]




SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS, APRIL 20.


The President and his party passed their first Sunday at Galveston,
leaving the Island City at midnight and arriving at San Antonio at
11:15 Monday morning. A special committee, consisting of Hon. C. W.
Ogden, Chairman; Col. C. M. Terrell, S. M. Johnson, J. S. McNamara,
Mrs. Ogden, Mrs. Johnson, and Miss Eleanor Sullivan, escorted the party
from Galveston. The _Alamo City_ was profusely decorated in honor of
the visit, and a great throng greeted the President's arrival. He was
received by the Hon. Bryan Callaghan, Mayor of the city, at the head of
the following committee of leading citizens: Gen. David S. Stanley, U.
S. A.; Col. J. P. Martin, Col. W. B. Wright, Col. H. B. Andrews, Maj. C.
C. Cresson, Hon. W. W. King, L. M. Gregory, B. F. Yoakum, C. W. Ogden,
H. D. Kampmann, J. S. Alexander, W. J. B. Patterson, A. W. Houston,
Reagan Houston, Richard Wooley, Jr., R. H. Russell, N. Mackey, George
Dullnig, J. V. Dignowity, J. S. Thornton, F. Groos, H. P. Drought, D.
Sullivan, Charles Hugo, Rev. Dr. Giddings, C. K. Breneman, W. H. Weiss,
Frank Grice, Alex. Joske, Henry Elmendorf, Robert Driscoll, Paul Wagner,
J. Ronse, J. E. Pancoast, Adolph Wagner, George H. Kalteyer, Charles J.
Langholz, C. B. Mullaly, R. H. McCracken, A. G. Cooper, Dr. G. Graham
Watts, Dr. J. P. Ornealus, Dr. Amos Graves, and A. T. Wilson. Mayor
McDonald, of Austin, and Hon. L. L. Foster also participated in the
reception.

A rainstorm interfered with the parade, and the public reception
was held at the Opera House, thousands being unable to enter. Mayor
Callaghan made the welcoming address and introduced President Harrison,
who spoke as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I very much regret that frequent
  speaking in the open air during the past week and the very heavy
  atmosphere which we have this morning have somewhat impaired my
  voice. I am sure you will crown your hospitality and kindness by
  allowing me to speak to you very briefly. I sympathize with you in the
  distress which you feel that the day is so unpropitious for any street
  demonstration, but I have been told by one wise in such matters that
  this rain is worth $5,000,000 to Western Texas. That being the case,
  it greatly moderates our regret. It has come to be a popular habit
  of attributing to the President whatever weather may happen on any
  demonstration in which he takes a part. I suppose I may claim credit
  this morning for this beneficial rain. [Applause.] I generously assure
  you that if it is worth as much money as my friend has estimated I
  shall not take more than half that sum. [Laughter.] In visiting for
  a little while this historic city, I had anticipated great pleasure
  in looking upon the remains of an earlier occupancy of this territory
  in which you now dwell. Our glance this morning must be brief and
  imperfect, but the history has been written and the traditions of
  these martyrdoms which occurred here for liberty are fresh in your
  minds and are still an inspiring story to be repeated to your children.

  I remember in my early boyhood to have heard in our family thrilling
  descriptions of the experiences of an uncle, whose name I bear, in
  some of those campaigns for freedom in Texas in which he took a part,
  so that the story to me goes back to those dim early recollections of
  childhood. I am glad to stand where those recollections are revived
  and freshened, for they were events of momentous importance to this
  country, to this State, and to the whole Union. I rejoice that you
  have here so great a commonwealth. The stipulations under which Texas
  came into the Union of the States, and which provided that that great
  Territory might be subdivided into five States, seem not to attract
  much attention in Texas now.

  Indeed, as far as I can judge, no man would be able successfully to
  appeal to the suffrages of any hamlet in Texas upon the issue that
  the State should be divided at all. [Cheers.] The great industrial
  capacities which you have, the beneficent climate that spreads over
  much of your vast territory, the great variety of productions which
  your soil and climate render possible, give a promise for the future
  of a prominence among the great States of the Union that seems to me
  can scarcely fail to bring Texas to the front rank. [Cheers.] You are
  only now beginning to plough this vast stretch of land. You are only
  now beginning to diversify those interests, to emancipate yourselves
  by producing at home in your fields all of those products which are
  necessary to comfortable existence.

  I hope you will soon add, indeed, you are now largely adding, to
  this diversity of agricultural pursuits a diversity of mechanical
  pursuits. The advantages which you have to transmute the great
  production of the field into the manufactured product are very great.
  There can be certainly no reason why a very large part of the million
  bales of cotton which you produce should not be spun in Texas.
  [Cheers.] I hope your people will more and more turn their thoughts to
  this matter, for just in proportion as a community or State suitably
  divides its energies among various industries, so does it retain the
  wealth it produces and increase its population. [Applause.]

  A great Englishman, visiting this country some time ago, in speaking
  of the impressions which were made upon his mind, said he was
  constantly asked as he travelled through the country whether he was
  not amazed at its territorial extent. He said while this, of course,
  was a notable incident of travel, he wondered that we did not forget
  all our bigness of territory in a contemplation of the great spectacle
  we presented as a free people in organized and peaceful community. He
  regarded this side of our country and her institutions as much more
  important than its material development or its territorial extent, and
  he was right in that judgment.

  My fellow-citizens, the pride of America, that which should attract
  the admiration and has attracted the imagination of many people upon
  the face of the earth, is our system of government. [Applause.] I am
  glad to know, and to have expressed my satisfaction before, that here
  in this State of Texas you are giving attention to education; that
  you have been able to erect a school fund, the interest upon which
  promises a most magnificent endowment for your common schools. These
  schools are the pride and safety of your State. They gather into them
  upon a common level with us, and I hope with you, the children of the
  rich and poor. In the State in which I dwell everybody's children
  attend the common schools.

  This lesson of equality, the perfect system which has been developed
  by this method of instruction, is training a valued class of citizens
  to take up the responsibilities of government when we shall lay them
  down. [Applause.] I hope every one of your communities, even your
  scattered rural communities, will pursue this good work. I am sure
  this hope is shared by my honored host, Governor Hogg, who sits beside
  me [applause], and who, in the discharge of his public duties, can
  influence the progress of this great measure. No material greatness,
  no wealth, no accumulation of splendor, is to be compared with those
  humble and homely virtues which have generally characterized our
  American homes.

  The safety of the State, the good order of the community--all
  that is good--the capacity, indeed, to produce material wealth, is
  dependent upon intelligence and social order. [Applause.] Wealth and
  commerce are timid creatures; they must be assured that the nest will
  be safe before they build. So it is always in those communities where
  the most perfect order is maintained, where intelligence is protected,
  where the Church of God and the institutions of religion are revered
  and respected, that we find the largest development in material
  wealth. [Applause.]

  Thanking you for your cordial greeting, thanking all your people,
  and especially the Governor of your State, for courtesies which have
  been unfailing, for a cordiality and friendliness that has not found
  any stint or repression in the fact that we are of different political
  opinions [great cheering], I beg to thank you for this special
  manifestation of respect, and to ask you to excuse me from further
  speech. I shall follow such arrangements as your committee have made,
  and shall be glad if in those arrangements there is some provision by
  which I may meet as many of you as possible individually. [Prolonged
  cheering.]




DEL RIO, TEXAS, APRIL 21.


The chief incident of the long run from San Antonio to El Paso was the
enthusiastic reception tendered the President by the residents of the
thriving frontier town of Del Rio, county seat of Val Verde County. The
town was handsomely decorated, and the following Reception Committee
welcomed the President and party: Judge W. K. Jones, C. S. Brodbent,
Zeno Fielder, J. A. Price, H. D. Bonnett, E. L. Dignowity, Paul Flato,
Clyde Woods, Thomas Cunningham, W. C. Easterling, J. C. Clarkson, E. G.
Nicholson, C. G. Leighton, and R. J. Felder.

Rev. Dr. H. S. Thrall, the veteran historian of Texas, delivered the
address of welcome. The President, responding, said:

  _My Friends_--I had supposed when we left San Antonio that we were
  not to be stopped very often between that point and El Paso with such
  assemblages of our fellow-citizens. We had settled down to an easy
  way of living on the train, and I had supposed that speech-making
  would not be taken up until to-morrow. I thank you most cordially
  for this friendly evidence of your interest, and I assure you that
  all of these matters to which your spokesman has alluded are having
  the most careful consideration of the authorities at Washington.
  The Secretary of Agriculture, who is with me on the train, has been
  diligent in an effort to open European markets for American meats,
  and he has succeeded so far that our exportation has very largely
  increased in the last year. It is our hope that these restrictions
  may still further be removed, and that American meat products may
  have a still larger market in Europe than they have had for very many
  years past. The inspections now provided by law certainly must remove
  every reasonable objection to the use of American meats; for we shall
  demonstrate to them that they are perfectly wholesome and pure. I want
  to say, from the time of my induction into office until this hour I
  have had before me constantly the need of the American farmer of a
  larger market for his products. [Cries of "Good! good!" and cheers.]
  Whatever we can do to accomplish that will be done. I want to thank
  the public-school children for this address which they have placed in
  my hands. What a blessed thing it is that the public school system is
  found with the pioneer! It follows the buffalo very closely. I am
  glad to find that your children are being trained in intelligence and
  in those moral restraints which shall make them good citizens. I thank
  you for your kindly presence.




EL PASO, TEXAS, APRIL 21.


The enterprising city of El Paso was reached at 10 o'clock Tuesday
morning, and the President was tendered a veritable ovation. The
reception at this point partook of an international aspect. President
Diaz of Mexico was represented in the person of Governor Carrillo,
Chief Executive of the State of Chihuahua, accompanied by a brilliant
staff of 20 officers. The War Department of the Mexican Government was
represented by Gen. José Maria Ranjel, Chief of the Second Military
Zone, accompanied by his staff, a company of artillery, and the Eleventh
Battalion Band of 45 instruments. From the City of Mexico came Col.
Ricardo Villanueva and Col. Ygnacio J. Monroy, representing the Federal
Government, while the neighboring city of Juarez was represented by
Colonel Ross, commander of the garrison, Señor Mejia, Señor Urtetiga,
and many other prominent citizens. The city of El Paso was represented
by Mayor Richard Caples and the members of the City Council. The
Citizens' Committee of Reception comprised W. S. Hills, Chairman; E. B.
Bronson, M. B. Davis, S. W. Russell, W. F. Payne, Frank P. Clark, C. F.
Slack, Geo. L. Stewart, H. S. Beattie, Judge Allen Blacker, A. Solomon,
W. B. Merrick, A. Berla, Louis Papin, Geo. E. Bovee, James A. Smith,
Hon. S. W. T. Lanham, A. J. Eaton, Z. T. White, W. S. McCutcheon, A. M.
Loomis, H. C. Myles, Ben Schuster, A. J. Sampson, D. W. Reckhart, and J.
F. Satterthwaite.

Governor Carrillo stood beside President Harrison during the reception.
After the distinguished Mexicans had paid their respects and greeted our
Chief Magistrate, Gen. A. G. Malloy, on behalf of the citizens of El
Paso, in an eloquent address welcomed him to the Gate City of the two
republics.

President Harrison responded as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have been journeying for several days
  throughout the great State of Texas. We are now about to leave her
  territory and receive from you this parting salutation. Our entrance
  into the State was with every demonstration of respect and enthusiasm.
  This is a fitting close to the magnificent expression which the
  people of this State have given to us. I am glad to stand at this
  gateway of trade with the great republic of Mexico. [Cries of "Hear!
  hear!" and cheers.] I am glad to know that it is not only a gateway
  of commerce, but a gateway of friendship [cheers]; that not only do
  these hurrying vehicles of commerce bear the products of the fields
  and mines in mutual exchange, but that they have facilitated those
  personal relations which have promoted and must yet more promote the
  friendliness of two independent liberty-loving peoples. [Cheers.]

  I receive with great satisfaction these tributes of respect
  which have been brought to me by the Governor of Chihuahua and the
  representatives of the army of Mexico. [Cheers.] I desire to return to
  them and through them to the people of Mexico and to that illustrious
  and progressive statesman who presides over her destinies [cheers] not
  only my sincere personal regard, but an assurance of the friendliness
  and respect of the American Government and the American people. I look
  forward with interest to a larger development of our trade; to the
  opening of new lines of commerce and new avenues of friendship. We
  have passed that era in our history, I hope, when we were aggressive
  and unpleasant neighbors. We do not covet the territory of any other
  people [cheers], but do covet their friendship and those trade
  exchanges which are mutually profitable. [Cheers.]

  And now to you, my fellow-citizens, I bring congratulations for
  the rapid development which you are making here, and extend the most
  cordial good wishes for the realization of every hope you have for
  El Paso and its neighborhood. [Cheers.] All republics are builded
  on the respect and confidence of the people. They are enduring and
  stable as their institutions and their rulers continue to preserve
  their respect. I rejoice that those influences that tend to soften the
  asperities of human life--the home, the school, and the church--have
  kept pace with the enterprises of commerce and are established here
  among you. All commerce and trade rest upon the foundation of social
  order. You cannot attract an increased citizenship except as you give
  to the world a reputation for social order [cheers], in which crime is
  suppressed, in which the rights of the humble are respected [cheers],
  and where the courts stand as the safe bulwark of the personal and
  public rights of every citizen, however poor. [Cheers.] I trust that
  as your city grows you will see that these foundations are carefully
  and broadly laid, and then you may hope that the superstructure,
  magnificent in its dimensions, perfect in its security and grace,
  shall rise in your midst. [Cheers.]

  I am glad to meet my comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic
  [cheers], the survivors of the grand struggle for the Union. It was
  one of the few wars in history that brought blessings to the "victors
  and vanquished," and was followed by no proscriptions, no block, no
  executions, but by the reception of those who had striven for the
  destruction of the country into friendly citizenship, laying upon them
  no yoke that was not borne by the veterans--that of obedience to the
  law and a due respect for the rights of others. [Cheers.]

  Again, sir [to the Mexican representative], I thank you for the
  friendly greeting you have brought from across this narrow river that
  separates us, and to you my fellow-countrymen, I extend my thanks and
  bid you good-by. [Prolonged cheers.]




DEMING, NEW MEXICO, APRIL 21.


As the train crossed the Rio Grande and entered New Mexico Hon. L.
Bradford Prince, Governor of that Territory, gave the Chief Magistrate
a cordial welcome. Deming was reached at 2 o'clock. The city was in
holiday attire; a battery of artillery thundered the presidential
salute, two companies of the Tenth Cavalry, under Captain Keyes, came
to a present as the President appeared, and the Twenty-fourth Infantry
Band burst forth in patriotic strains. The Committee of Reception
comprised the following prominent citizens: Judge Boone, C. H. Dane, B.
A. Knowles, J. R. Meyers, A. J. Clark, J. P. Bryon, W. H. Hudson, S.
M. Ashenfelter, Gustav Wormser, Ed. Pennington, W. Burg, James Martin,
Colonel Fitzerell, James A. Lockhart, Seaman Field, John Corbett, E.
G. Ross, and Robert Campbell. Professor Hayes delivered the welcoming
address.

In reply President Harrison said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It gives me great pleasure to tarry for a
  moment here and to receive out on these broad and sandy plains the
  same evidence of friendliness that has greeted me in the States. I
  feel great interest in your people, and thinking that you have labored
  under a disadvantage by reason of the unsettled state of your land
  titles--because no country can settle up and become populous while the
  titles to its land remain insecure--it was my pleasure to urge upon
  Congress, both in a general and special message, the establishment of
  a special land court to settle this question once for all. [Cheers.]

  I am glad that the statute is now a law, and immediately upon my
  return from this trip I expect to announce the judges of that court,
  and to set them immediately to work upon these cases, so that you
  shall certainly, within two years, have all these questions settled.
  I hope you will then see an increase of population that has not as
  yet been possible, and which will tend to develop your great mineral
  resources and open up your lands to settlement. Thanking you, on
  behalf of our party, for this pleasant greeting, I bid you good-by.
  [Cheers.]




LORDSBURG, NEW MEXICO, APRIL 21.


At Lordsburg, New Mexico, the train made a brief stop. A number of
citizens, headed by Don. H. Kedzee, welcomed the President and presented
him a handsome silver box, manufactured from metal mined in the
vicinity. On the case was inscribed, "Protect the chief industry of our
Territories. Give us free coinage of silver." In accepting the memento
the President said: "Mr. Kedzee and gentlemen, I thank you for this
cordial welcome and for this elegant souvenir, and assure you due care
will be taken of your interests." [Cheers.]




TUCSON, ARIZONA, APRIL 21.


Tucson, the metropolis of Arizona, was brilliantly illuminated in
honor of the visitors, who were welcomed by 5,000 citizens and a band
of Papago Indians. Negley Post, G. A. R., J. J. Hill, Commander,
represented the veterans. The city government was present in the persons
of Mayor Frederick Maish and Councilmen M. G. Sameniego, M. Lamont, Geo.
Lesure, Wm. Reid, Frank Miltenberg, and Julius Goldbaum. The Committee
of Reception on the part of the citizens comprised many of the most
distinguished men of the Territory as well as of the city, among whom
were: Federal Judges R. E. Sloan and H. C. Gooding, Gen. R. A. Johnson,
Gen. R. H. Paul, Charles R. Drake, Herbert Brown, Brewster Cameron,
J. Knox Corbett, George Christ, J. S. McGee, S. Ainsa, Samuel Hughes,
Juan Elias, Rev. Howard Billman, Albert Steinfeld, H. S. Stevens, M.
P. Freeman, S. M. Franklin, W. C. Davis, W. M. Lovell, J. S. Noble, H.
B. Tenny, F. H. Hereford, D. C. Driscoll, J. C. Handy, J. A. Black,
Thomas Hughes, A. J. Keen, J. M. Ormsby, H. E. Lacy, G. B. Henry, Frank
Allison, George Pusch, H. W. Fenner, R. D. Furguson, F. J. Henry, and C.
C. Eyster.

Hon. Thos. F. Wilson made the address of welcome. The President said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is surprising as well as gratifying to
  see so many friends assembled to greet us on our arrival at Tucson
  to-night. I beg to assure you that the interests of the Territories
  are very close to my heart. By reason of my service as Chairman of the
  Territory Committee in the United States Senate I was brought to study
  very closely the needs of the Territories. I have had great pleasure
  issuing the proclamations admitting five Territories to the sisterhood
  of States since I became President. I realize the condition of the
  people of the Territory without having representation in Congress as
  one of disadvantage, and I am friendly to the suggestion that these
  Territories, as they have sufficient population to sustain a State
  Government and to secure suitable administration of the own affairs,
  shall be received into the Union. [Cheers.] It will be gratifying to
  me if you shall come into that condition during the time that I occupy
  the presidential chair. [Cheers.] I thank you again for your cordial
  demonstration, and beg to present to you that gentleman of the Cabinet
  who has charge of the postal affairs, Mr. Wanamaker. [Prolonged
  cheers.]




INDIO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


The morning of the 22d brought the President and his party out of the
great desert to the borders of California, where at Indio, the first
station, they were enthusiastically greeted by the Governor of the
State, Hon. Henry H. Markham, at the head of the following distinguished
committee: Senator Charles N. Felton, ex-Gov. Geo. C. Perkins, Col.
Charles F. Crocker, Hon. R. F. Del Valle, Hon. Stephen M. White, Gen.
E. P. Johnson, Hon. Hervey Lindley, Hon. Freeman G. Teed, Hon. Irwin
C. Stump, Hon. Frank McCoppin, and Adjutant-General Allen. From the
districts adjacent to Indio were gathered several hundred people to
greet the Chief Magistrate, mostly Indians. Postmaster A. G. Tingman
introduced the venerable Chief Cabazon, head of the Cohuilla tribe
and over 100 years old, who presented a petition to the President
asking that the lands guaranteed his people by the treaty with Mexico
be restored to them. Governor Markham delivered a cordial welcoming
address, wherein he reviewed the wonderful growth of California.

The President, in reply, said he would not undertake, while almost
choked with the dust of the plains he had just left, to say all that
he hoped to say in the way of pleasant greetings to the citizens of
California. Some time, when he had been refreshed by their olive oil and
their vineyards, he would endeavor to express his gratification at being
able to visit California. He had long desired to visit California, and
it was the objective point of this trip. He had seen the northern coast
and Puget Sound, but had never before been able to see California. He
remembered from boyhood the excitement of the discovery of gold, and
had always distantly followed California's growth and progress. The
acquisition of California was second only to that of Louisiana and the
control of the Mississippi River. It secured us this great coast, and
made impossible the ownership of a foreign power on any of our coast
line. It has helped to perfect our magnificent isolation, which is our
great protection against foreign aggression. He thanked the Governor and
committee for their kindly reception, and assured them that if he should
have any complaints to make of his treatment in California it would be
because its people had been too hospitable.




COLTON, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


At Colton the presidential party were enthusiastically greeted by
several thousand people. The Citizens' Committee comprised A. B. Miner,
Chairman; Dr. Fox, J. B. Shepardson, Wilson Hays, W. H. Wright, F. M.
Hubbard, Dr. Hutchinson, H. B. Smith, J. W. Davis, S. M. Goddard, J. B.
Hanna, Captain Topp, W. W. Wilcox, M. A. Murphy, Prof. Mathews, R. A.
Kuhn, C. B. Hamilton, J. M. White, Dr. Sprecher, Geo. E. Slaughter, R.
F. Franklin, E. A. Pettijohn, E. E. Thompson, Dan Swartz, R. M. McKie,
Wm. McCully and Proctor McCann. The committee appointed to wait on Mrs.
Harrison were: Mesdames Hubbard, Button, Shepardson, Fuller, Gilbert,
Shibley, Hebbard, and Wright. Twelve school-girls presented as many
baskets of oranges to the lady of the White House.

The President addressed the assemblage and said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We have travelled now something more than
  3,500 miles. They have been 3,500 miles of cordial greeting from my
  fellow-citizens; they have been 3,500 miles of perpetual talk. It
  would require a brain more fertile in resources, more diversified
  in its operations than the State of California in its richness and
  productions, to say something original or interesting at each one of
  these stopping places; but I can say always with a warm heart to my
  fellow-citizens who greet me so cordially, who look to me out of such
  kindly faces, I thank you; I am your servant in all things that will
  conduce to the general prosperity and happiness of the American people.

  Remote from us of the far East in distance, we are united to you
  not only by the ties of a common citizenship, by the reverence and
  honor we joyfully give to the one flag, but by those interchanges
  of emigration which have brought so many of the people of the older
  States to you. At every station where I have stopped since entering
  California some Hoosier has reached up his hand to greet me [laughter
  and cheers], and the omnipresent Ohio man, of course, I have found
  everywhere. I was assured by these gentlemen that they were making
  their full contributions to the development of your country, and that
  they have possessed themselves of their fair share of it.

  I have been greatly pleased this morning to come out of the land of
  the desert and the drifting sand into this land of homes and smiling
  women and bright children. I have been glad to see these beautiful
  gardens and these fertile fields, and to know that you are now, by
  the economical collection and distribution of the waters of the
  hills, making all these valleys to blossom like the garden of Eden.
  We do not come to spy the land with any view of dispossessing you, as
  the original spies went into Palestine. We come simply to exchange
  friendly greetings, and we shall hope to carry away nothing that does
  not belong to us. [Cheers.]

  If we shall leave your happy and prosperous State freighted with
  your good-will and love, as we shall leave ours with you, it will be a
  happy exchange. [Cheers.]




ONTARIO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


At Ontario the President received a most patriotic greeting; throngs of
school children brought him flowers. The Reception Committee was G. T.
Stamm, I. S. Miller, E. P. Clarke, S. G. Blood, R. E. Blackburn, G. W.
A. Luckey, Dr. O. S. Ensign, Dr. R. H. Tremper, and O. S. Picher.

H. Z. Osborne, of the Los Angeles committee, introduced the President,
who spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--I thank you for this cordial greeting. I am sure you
  will excuse me from extended remarks. I have been subjected to such
  a strain in that direction that my brain needs irrigation to make it
  blossom with new thoughts. It to me is a pleasure to look into the
  intelligent faces of American citizens. No such people gather in any
  other country as meet me at every station. They come from good homes,
  which are the safety of our commonwealth. I am pleased to see these
  children here. Good schools have everywhere followed the pioneer. You
  have brought to this new country the old New England ideas of thrift,
  of living on a little and having a good deal left over. [Cheers.]




BANNING, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


Banning, the gateway to Southern California, gave the presidential
party an enthusiastic welcome and loaded them down with fruits and
flowers. Mr. Louis Munson, editor of the Banning _Herald_, at the head
of the Reception Committee, delivered the welcoming address. The next
day at Arlington, where he had gone to again assist in receiving the
President, Mr. Munson was suddenly taken with hemorrhage and died as the
train passed. Other members of the committee were M. G. Kelley, W. S.
Hathaway, C. H. Ingelow, W. H. Ingelow, Dr. J. C. King, F. J. Clancy, W.
Morris, and M. L. Bridge. Two hundred Indian school children, in charge
of Miss Morris and Father Hahn, were objects of interest to the party.

Replying to Mr. Munson's address, the President said that although the
good people of Banning were far in point of distance from the seat of
government, yet he was sure they were bound nearly and close to it by
ties of loyalty and of patriotism. He expressed his pleasure at meeting
the citizens of Banning and his appreciation of their cordial welcome.




POMONA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


At Pomona the President's car was profusely decorated with floral
designs by the ladies of the town. The members of the Reception
Committee were Senator J. E. McComas, Rev. Chas. F. Loop, W. E. Ward,
W. M. Woody, A. H. Wilbur, F. P. Firey, C. I. Lorbeer, Capt. T. C.
Thomas, Geo. Osgoodby, C. D. Ambrose, Con Howe, John E. Packard, and E.
B. Smith. Vicksburg Post, G. A. R., H. H. Williams, Commander, was in
attendance.

Responding to their cheers and calls the President said:

  This cordial demonstration of respect, these friendly greetings,
  make me your debtor. I beg to thank you for it all, and out of such
  gatherings as these, out of the friendly manifestations you have
  given me on my entrance to California, I hope to get new impulses to
  a more faithful and diligent discharge of the public duties which
  my fellow-citizens have devolved upon me. No man can feel himself
  adequate to these responsible functions, but I am sure if you shall
  judge your public servants to be conscientiously devoted to your
  interests, to the bringing to the discharge of their public duties a
  conscientious fidelity and the best intelligence with which they are
  endowed, you will pardon any shortcoming. Again I thank you for your
  friendliness and beg you to excuse me from further speech.




LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 22.


The famous city of Los Angeles was reached at 3 o'clock on the afternoon
of the 22d. An ovation awaited the President and his party here the like
of which they had not witnessed. They were met at Colton by a committee
of escort consisting of Mayor Henry T. Hazard and Mrs. Hazard, Mr. and
Mrs. E. F. Spence, H. W. Hellman, Gen. and Miss Mathews, W. C. Furrey
and wife, Judge and Mrs. S. O. Houghton, A. W. Francisco and wife, Col.
H. G. Otis and wife, J. A. Kelly and wife, H. Z. Osborne and wife,
Capt. George J. Ainsworth, Mrs. Hervey Lindley, E. H. Lamme, and L.
N. Breed. Fully 20,000 voices greeted the President's arrival at the
station, where the members of the Citizens' Reception Committee, of
which Mayor Hazard was Chairman, received him. This committee comprised
the leading men of the city, among whom were Hon. R. F. Del Valle, Gen.
John Mansfield, Gen. E. P. Johnson, Gen. A. McD. McCook, Gen. E. E.
Hewitt, Maj. Geo. E. Gard, Hon. John R. Mathews, Maj. E. W. Jones, Col.
H. C. Corbin, Maj. A. W. Barrett, Col. T. A. Lewis, Eugene Germain, C.
F. A. Last, J. Frankenfeld, W. H. Workman, Joseph Mesmer, L. I. Garnsey,
G. J. Griffith, John W. Green, J. F. Humphreys, H. L. Macneil, A. E.
Pomeroy, Frank W. Sabichi, I. H. Polk, J. W. Haverstick, S. B. Hynes,
R. S. Baker, Harris Newmark, J. C. Kays, Maj. J. R. Toberman, I. R.
Dunkleberger, Maj. A. W. Elderkin, ex-Gov. Geo. Stoneman, K. H. Wade,
A. E. Fletcher, Col. Joseph R. Smith, W. W. Howard, Maj. W. H. Toler,
Capt. W. H. Seamans, George W. Bryant, Poindexter Dunn, Judge Lewis H.
Groff, Hon. R. B. Carpenter, Maj. E. F. C. Klokke, Hon. S. M. White,
W. H. Perry, S. C. Hubbell, S. H. Mott, I. N. Van Nuys, A. Haas, J. de
Barth Shorb, Maj. George S. Patton, Maj. E. L. Stern, Dr. H. Nadeau, K.
Cohn, O. W. Childs, Jr., L. Lichtenberger, A. H. Denker, Col. George H.
Smith, A. Glassell, Herman Silver, Louis Mesmer, J. M. Elliott, S. B.
Caswell, Dr. Eyraud, William R. Rowland, D, Amestoy, J. M. Glass, M. L.
Wicks, J. A. Booty, Maj. A. F. Kimball, Capt. H. K. Bailey, Judge W. P.
Wade, Judge Walter Van Dyke, Judge W. H. Clarke, Judge J. W. McKinley,
Judge B. N. Smith, Judge Lucien Shaw, W. W. Robinson, A. Lowe, K. Loeb,
Hancock Banning, Capt. Will Banning, T. W. Brotherton, W. J. Brodrick,
M. S. Severance, J. Illich, Gen. D. Remick, R. Cohen, Fred Eaton, H.
Siegel, V. Dol, M. Polaski, Dr. John S. Griffin, J. F. Humphreys, J.
M. Davies, Washington Hadley, George C. Cook, Sanford Johnson, C. O.
Collins, Col. F. A. Eastman, D. Desmond, C. Ducommun, James McLachlan,
J. E. Plater, J. F. Towell, John S. Chapman, G. Wiley Wells, Judge Enoch
Knight, J. W. Hendricks, George A. Vignolo, George R. Valiant, Philip
Garnier, Judge W. P. Gardiner, T. J. Weldon, R. M. Widney, A. C. Shafer,
Freeman G. Teed, Chas. H. White, John Keneally, Joseph Shoder, Judge
J. D. Bicknell, Thomas A. Lewis, Dr. W. G. Cochran, Louis Phillips,
Richard Gird, D. M. McGarry, J. T. Sheward, J. M. Hale, B. F. Coulter,
Andrew Mullen, H. Jevne, W. S. Moore, L. L. Bradbury, H. J. Fleishman,
Dr. J. P. Widney, George L. Arnold, L. A. Sheldon, Will D. Gould, R.
R. Haines, John McRae, C. J. Ellis, J. K. Tufts, Dan McFarland, L.
Harris, L. Ebinger, A. E. Pomeroy, ex-Gov. J. G. Downey, ex-Gov. Pico,
T. E. Rowan, O. T. Johnson, Col. W. G. Schreiber, Dr. W. Lindley, O.
H. Churchill, W. G. Kerckhoff, J. A. Muir, Silas Hoolman, Hon. J. F.
Crank, I. B. Newton, James Castruccio, J. A. Kelly, L. E. Mosher, A. F.
Coronel, J. C. Daly, Dr. W. L. Graves, H. W. O'Melveny, J. H. Shanklin,
Charles Froman, Albert M. Stephens, A. W. Hutton, Rev. W. J. Chichester,
H. T. Gage, Anson Brunson, Charles Silent, Dr. Joseph Kurtz, Judge T.
K. Wilson, Rev. A. G. Meyer, Simon Maier, Jacob Kuhrts, Judge J. D.
Bethune, Judge M. T. Allen, Albert McFarland, W. E. Hughes, Herman
Silver, Williamson Dunn, R. J. Northam, Capt. F. N. Marion, Capt. A. M.
Thornton, L. Roeder, H. T. Newell, E. A. Forrester, John W. Wolfskill,
Joseph Wolfskill, H. J. Shoulter, Niles Pease, F. E. Brown, M. G. Jones,
John J. Schallert, Walter Patrick, Charles F. Harper, F. W. King, J. M.
Griffith, C. H. Hance, J. A. Henderson, Newell Mathews, John Wigmore,
W. C. Howell, H. Baruch, L. W. Blum, Andrew W. Ryan, J. Schumacher,
E. T. Wright, A. B. Whitney, H. C. Austin, A. E. Davis, M. Dodsworth,
R. Rees, William Lacy, Jotham Bixby, J. W. Potts, L. A. Grant, T. H.
Ward, George P. McLain, J. J. Warner, Henry Owens, F. M. Nickell, J. H.
Dockweiler, Dan Innes, M. D. Johnson, Ed. D. Gibson, Charles Stern, H.
D. Barrows, M. V. Biscailuz, H. Hiller, J. E. Yoakum, J. P. Moran, J. W.
Hinton, George Hansen, Len J. Thompson, W. S. Maxwell, L. Polaski, Theo.
Summerland, Joseph Mullaly, P. Beaudry, James Hanley, L. Bixby, William
M. Friesner, C. Ganahl, Tom Strohm, B. T. Tolbert, Sherman Smith,
John A. Hughes, H. V. Van Dusen, John Bernard, O. J. Muchmore, C. F.
Heinzman, J. C. Quinn, William Pridham, L. C. Goodwin, C. H. Alford, E.
H. Hutchinson, W. H. Rhodes, A. McNally, E. E. Crandall, J. W. Hendrick,
H. W. Mills, John Goldsworthy, Thomas Pierson, Robert E. Wirshing, Cyrus
Vena, S. W. Luitweiler, R. H. Slater, H. Bartning, A. H. Denker, E. B.
Millar, A. L. Bath, T. S. C. Lowe, Frank H. Howard, Joseph Maier, J.
Frank Burns, Conrad Jacoby, Charles A. Homer, Judge A. Brunson, Mark
G. Jones, D. McFarland, J. J. Gosper, J. M. Frew, R. Dillon, Dr. K. D.
Wise, T. D. Mott, J. C. Dotter, W. T. Lambie, Frank Gibson, John Bryson,
C. H. Bradley, V. Ponet, M. C. Marsh, F. J. Capitan, William Ferguson,
M. Meyberg, L. Jacoby, H. Mosgrove, A. Hamburger, Al Workman, W. T.
Dalton, S. Hutton, Dr. J. H. Bryant, Fred Gilmore, J. H. Book, C. E.
Day, C. B. Woodhead, Gen. E. Bouton, Robert Steere, F. N. Meyers, L. M.
Wagner, and F. E. Lopez.

As the President passed through the crowded streets of the city,
escorted by several hundred G. A. R. veterans, he encountered a
veritable rain of flowers at the hands of several thousand school
children. Arriving at the grand stand Mayor Hazard, for the Reception
Committee, formally welcomed the President, who responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--My stay among you will not be long
  enough to form an individual judgment of the quality of your people,
  but it has been long enough already to get a large idea of the number
  of them. [Cheers.] I beg of you to accept my sincere thanks for this
  magnificent demonstration of your respect. I do not at all assume
  that these huzzas and streamers and banners with which you have
  greeted me to-day are a tribute to me individually. I receive them as
  a most assuring demonstration of the love of the people of California
  for American institutions. [Great and prolonged cheering.] And well
  are these institutions worthy of all honor. The flag that you have
  displayed here to-day, the one flag, the banner of the free and the
  symbol of the indissoluble union of the States, is worthy of the
  affections of our people. Men have died for it on the field of battle;
  women have consecrated it with their tears and prayers as they placed
  the standard in the hands of brave men on the morning of battle. It
  is historically full of tender interest and pride. It has a glorious
  story on the sea in those times when the American navy maintained our
  prestige and successfully beat the navies of our great antagonist.
  [Cheers.]

  It has a proud record from the time of our great struggle for
  independence down to the last sad conflict between our own citizens.
  We bless God to-day that these brave men who, working out His purpose
  on the field of battle, made it again the symbol of a united people.
  [Cheers.] Our institutions, of which this flag is an emblem, are free
  institutions. These men and women into whose faces I look are free
  men and women. I do not honor you by my presence here to-day. I hold
  my trust from you and you honor me in this reception. [Great cheers.]
  This magnificent domain on the Pacific coast, seized for the Union
  by the energy and courage and wise forethought of Frémont and his
  associates, is essential to our perfection. Nothing more important in
  territorial extension, unless it be the purchase of the territory of
  Louisiana and the control of the Mississippi River, has ever occurred
  in our national history. [Great cheering.] We touch two oceans, and
  on both we have built commonwealths and great cities, thus securing
  in that territory individuality and association which give us an
  assurance of perpetual peace. [Cheers.] No great conflict of arms
  can ever take place on American soil if we are true to ourselves and
  have forever determined that no civil conflict shall again rend our
  country. [Cheers.]

  We are a peace-loving Nation, and yet we cannot be sure that
  everybody else will be peaceful, and therefore I am glad that by
  the general consent of our people and by the liberal appropriations
  from Congress we are putting on the sea some of the best vessels of
  their class afloat [cheers], and that we are now prepared to put
  upon their decks as good guns as are made in the world; and when we
  have completed our programme, ship by ship, we will put in their
  forecastles as brave Jack Tars as serve under any flag. [Great
  cheering.] The provident care of our Government should be given to
  your sea-coast defences until all these great ports of the Atlantic
  and Pacific are made safe. [Cheers.]

  But, my countrymen, this audience overmatches a voice that has been
  in exercise from Roanoke, Va., to Los Angeles. I beg you, therefore,
  again to receive my most hearty thanks and excuse me from further
  speech. [Great and prolonged cheering.]

In the evening the President was escorted to the pavilion, with a view
to receiving personally the citizens, but when he viewed the great
assemblage he desisted from the herculean task of taking each one by the
hand, and instead thereof made the following address:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--I thank you for the warm greeting that you
  have given me and the royal welcome you have extended to my party and
  myself to your lovely city. I am thoroughly aware of the non-partisan
  character of this gathering, and appreciate the good-will with which
  you have gathered here in this vast building to receive me. I had a
  touching evidence of the non-partisan character of this gathering--and
  the good-will as well--just now when a man said to me: "I want to
  shake hands with you, even if I did lose a thousand dollars on your
  election." There will be no trouble to keep the flame of patriotism
  and love of country glowing so long as the American people thus
  manifest their loyalty to the officers whom the will of the people
  has placed in power. I thank you again for your good-will and hearty
  welcome. [Great cheering.]




SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


The presidential party reached San Diego Wednesday evening and was
escorted at once to Coronado Beach Hotel. The Indiana residents of the
city called upon the President shortly after his arrival, and Mr. Wright
delivered an address in their behalf.

The President, in response, said:

  _My Friends_--I regret that I can only say thank you. Our time is
  now due to the citizens of San Diego, and I have promised not to
  detain that committee. It is particularly pleasurable to me to see,
  as I have done at almost every station where our train stopped, some
  Indianian, who stretched up the hand of old neighborship to greet
  me as I passed along. It is this intermingling of our people which
  sustains the merit of the home. The Yankee intermingles with the
  Illinoisian, the Hoosier with the Sucker, and the people of the South
  with them all; and it is this commingling which gives that unity which
  marks the American Nation. I am glad to know that there are so many of
  you here, and as I said to some Hoosiers as I came along, I hope you
  have secured your share of these blessings.

The formal reception of the President took place Thursday morning, when
he was welcomed by Mayor Douglas Gunn, at the head of the following
Committee of Reception: Hon. John D. Works, Hon. Eli H. Murray, Hon.
W. W. Bowers, Howard M. Kutchin, Hon. Olin Wellborn, E. S. Babcock,
Col. W. G. Dickinson, Col. Chalmers Scott, Hon. G. W. Hardacre, W. J.
Hunsaker, Hon. George Puterbaugh, E. S. Torrance, W. L. Pierce, Watson
Parrish, M. A. Luce, N. H. Conklin, Maj. Levi Chase, Col. E. J. Ensign,
James P. Goodwin, M. L. Ward, Col. A. G. Gassen, James McCoy, Dr. R. M.
Powers, W. N. King, A. E. Horton, L. S. McLure, T. S. Van Dyke, Col.
John Kastle, Carl Schutze, Geo. D. Copeland, M. Sherman, H. L. Story,
D. C. Reed, S. W. Switzer, Col. G. G. Bradt, Thos. Gardner, E. N. Buck,
Dr. D. Gochenauer, Henry Timken, Col. W. L. Vestal, C. W. Pauly, Col.
G. M. Brayton, U. S. A.; Capt. Leonard Hay, Capt. W. R. Maize, Lieut.
E. B. Robertson, John R. Berry, H. T. Christian, D. H. Hewitt, Col. A.
G. Watson, Daniel Stone, W. E. Howard, J. S. Buck, R. C. Allen, A. V.
Lomeli, Mexican Consul; J. B. Neilson, Danish Consul; J. W. Girvin,
Hawaiian Consul; M. Blochman, French Vice-Consul; Bryant Howard, Jacob
Gruendike, J. W. Collins, John Long, Frank A. Kimball, S. Levi, Gen.
T. T. Crittenden, J. F. Sinks, Dr. P. C. Remondino, O. J. Stough, J.
S. Mannasse, Frank M. Simpson, J. E. Fishburne, Warren Wilson, T. A.
Nerney, H. C. Treat, F. S. Jennings, T. M. Loup, Dr. J. G. Beck, Capt.
C. T. Hinde, G. S. Havermale, H. A. Howard, Philip Morse, George W.
Marston, Fred N. Hamilton, E. W. Morse, J. S. Gordon, E. J. Louis,
R. M. Dooley, E. W. Bushyhead, O. S. Witherby, W. J. Prout, William
Collier, J. H. Gay, G. H. Ballou, F. S. Plympton, J. P. Winship, Tomas
Alvarado, Col. E. B. Spileman, Ariosto McCrimmon, Paul H. Blades, and
Walter G. Smith.

Heintzelman Post, G. A. R., Gen. Datus E. Coon, Commander, participated
in the reception, which was held on the Plaza. Mayor Gunn delivered the
address of welcome.

The President, responding, said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I am in slavery to a railroad
  schedule, and have but a few moments longer to tarry in your beautiful
  city. If there were no other reward for our journey across the
  continent, we have seen to-day about your magnificent harbor that
  which would have repaid us for all the toil of travel. [Applause.]

  I do not come to tell you anything about California, for I have
  perceived in my intercourse with Californians in the East and during
  this brief stay among you that already you know all about California.
  [Laughter.]

  You are, indeed, most happily situated. Every element that makes
  life comfortable is here; every possibility that makes life successful
  and prosperous is here; and I am sure, as I look into those kindly,
  upturned faces, that your homes have as healthful a moral atmosphere
  as the natural one that God has spread over your smiling land.

  It is with regret that we now part from you. The welcome you
  have extended to us is magnificent, kindly, and tasteful. We shall
  carry away the most pleasant impression, and shall wish for you all
  that you anticipate in your largest dreams for your beautiful city
  [cheers]--that your harbor may be full of foreign and coast-wise
  traffic, that it may not be long until the passage of our naval and
  merchant marine shall not be by the Horn, but by Nicaragua. [Cheers.]
  I believe that great enterprise, which is to bring your commerce into
  nearer and cheaper contact with the Atlantic seaboard cities, both of
  this continent and of South America, will not be long delayed.

  And now, again with most grateful thanks for your friendly
  attention, in my own behalf and in behalf of all who journey with me I
  bid you a most kindly farewell. [Prolonged cheers.]

At the conclusion of the President's address Governor Torres, of Lower
California, in the uniform of a Major-General of the Mexican army,
approached the President and read the following telegram from Gen.
Porfirio Diaz, President of Mexico:

  It has come to my knowledge that the President of the United States,
  Hon. Benjamin Harrison, shall visit San Diego on the 23d instant, and
  I let you know it so that you may call to congratulate him in my name
  and present him with my compliments.

                                [Signed]              PORFIRIO DIAZ.

Responding to this friendly international salute, President Harrison
said:

  _Governor Torres_--This message from that progressive and
  intelligent gentleman who presides over the destinies of our sister
  republic is most grateful to me. I assure you that all our people,
  that the Government, through all its instituted authorities,
  entertain for President Diaz and for the chivalrous people over which
  he presides the most friendly sentiments of respect. [Cheers and
  applause.] We covet, sir, your good-will and those mutual exchanges
  which are mutually profitable, and we hope that the two republics may
  forever dwell in fraternal peace.

As the President sat down Governor Torres remarked: "The Mexican people
respond heartily to your kind wishes."




SANTA ANA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


On the return route from San Diego the presidential train stopped at
Santa Ana, a thriving town in Orange County, where 5,000 people had
assembled to greet the Chief Magistrate. The Committee of Reception was
John T. Nourse, C. S. McKelvey, W. S. Taylor, J. A. Crane, John Beatty,
Geo. E. Edgar, Geo. T. Insley, Capt. H. T. Matthews, W. H. Drips, and
Robert Cummings. Sedgwick Post, G. A. R., H. F. Stone, Commander, was
present. Prof. M. Manley delivered the address of welcome, and the Hon.
W. H. Spurgeon, founder of the city, introduced the President, who spoke
as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have already proved your hospitality. It is
  very, very generous, and it is very graceful. I have but one doubt in
  regard to it, and that is whether I can stand so much of it. [Laughter
  and applause.] It has given me great gladness of heart to look into
  your faces. I have been discharging some public business far remote
  from you, and I hope with some concern for your interest, for I have
  tried to take a wide view of public questions and to have in my mind a
  thought of the people of this great land.

  Our politics should be as broad as the territory over which our
  people have spread. It is a part of the history of the country which
  has always kept in memory the safety and interests of those who pushed
  civilization to the Rocky Mountains and over its rugged peaks into
  these fruitful valleys. I am glad to see here this afternoon these
  little children. The order in which they have assembled gives me
  assurance that they have come from the school-houses, those nurseries
  of knowledge and common interests in our American States.

  I am glad that you grow not only the olive-tree in your garden, but
  that to the olive-trees that are planted in the household and bloom
  about your table you give your greatest attention. Now, thanking you
  very kindly and confessing very humbly that I am not able to repay you
  for your generous welcome, and leaving to all these little ones my
  best hopes for useful, prosperous, and honorable lives, I bid you all
  good-by.




ORANGE, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


Through the zealous efforts of Mrs. T. I. Halsted, President of the
Woman's Relief Corps of Orange, Mrs. Emilie N. Tener, and others, the
presidential train stopped at that town. The Committee of Reception was:
Rev. A. Parker, Robert E. Tener, E. E. Risley, Wm. H. Arne, Mrs. E. B.
Strong, H. W. Wilson, and D. C. Pixley. Gordon Granger Post, G. A. R.,
A. Meacham, Commander, was present in full force.

Responding to enthusiastic cheers the President said:

  _My Friends_--I am glad to look into your smiling faces, and I
  thank you for this welcome. California is a State that is favorably
  situated, and, so far as I can judge, this section is among the most
  favored in the State. There is no time for a speech, but we can shake
  hands with a few of those who are nearest.




RIVERSIDE, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


One of the most enjoyable visits of the President and his party was
to Riverside, San Bernardino County, where, on driving from Arlington
station, they were welcomed by several thousand residents of the
district. The Committee of Reception comprised Hon. H. M. Streeter,
Judge W. W. Noland, Judge Harvey Potter, C. O. Perrine, Capt. C. H.
Vosburg, C. M. Loring, A. P. Johnson, F. M. Dunbar, A. Keith, C. T.
Rice, Capt. J. T. Lawler, A. H. Naftzger, E. W. Holmes, F. McChoppin,
Frank A. Miller, G. W. Dickson, J. A. Wilbur, F. M. Heath, C. N.
Andrews, J. R. Newberry, F. E. Abbott, W. C. Fitzsimmons, D. W. McLeod,
B. R. Williams, C. P. Hayt, and Mrs. S. A. Ames, representing the city
of Riverside; Mrs. C. W. Sylvester, representing the Woman's Relief
Corps; Mrs. C. Button, representing the W. C. T. U., and Mrs. Davis.

The President and Mrs. Harrison and all the other members of the party
were treated to a delightful drive through the celebrated orange groves.
The President was accompanied by Hon. S. C. Evans. Returning from the
groves the President's carriage was halted in front of the High School
building, where 1,400 scholars and several thousand others had assembled.

On being presented by Mr. Evans the President said:

  _My Friends_--We can tarry only for a moment, as we are already
  behind the regular time for leaving. I cannot, however, drive by this
  large assemblage of friends, gathered to greet us on the way, without
  expressing the delight with which I have looked upon these beautiful
  surroundings. My trip from Washington has been full of pleasures and
  surprises, but nothing has given me greater surprise and more pleasure
  than the drive of this afternoon through this magnificent valley of
  Riverside. I am glad you are interested in cultivating the children as
  well as the orange, and I trust that their young minds may be kept as
  free from all that is injurious as these fine orange orchards are of
  weeds and everything that is noxious. May their lives be as fruitful
  as your trees, and their homes as happy and full of joy as this land
  seems to be of the bright sunshine of God.

The distinguished visitors then proceeded through the city and reviewed
the parade, at the conclusion of which the President, speaking without
introduction, said:

  _My Friends_--I am sorry that we can tarry with you only for a
  moment. We are now twenty minutes behind our schedule time for
  leaving. If we should stay with you longer we should disappoint others
  who are waiting for us at an appointed time.

  We are grateful to you for your presence. I have enjoyed very much
  the ride through the valley. You are a favored people, and ought to
  be, as I have no doubt you are, a law-abiding, liberty-loving, and
  patriotic people.




SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


Another typical gathering, full of California enthusiasm, greeted
the party at San Bernardino. The Reception Committee comprised C. C.
Haskell, Chairman; J. C. Lynch, Hon. Samuel Merrill, W. A. Harris,
Joseph Brown, J. N. Victor, L. C. Waite, Richard Gird, W. E. W.
Lightfoot, W. B. Beamer, R. J. Waters, Truman Reeves, Dr. A. Thompson,
Col. T. J. Wilson, D. A. Scott, A. S. Hawley, J. J. Hewitt, E. B.
Stanton, A. G. Kendall, Dr. J. P. Booth, W. H. Timmons, Wilson Hays,
Geo. Cooley, R. B. Taylor, H. A. Keller, E. E. Katz, Lewis Jacobs, H. L.
Drew, N. G. Gill, and I. W. Lord. Mr. W. J. Curtis delivered the address
of welcome. In response the President said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow citizens_--I can only repeat to you what I
  have already had occasion to say to many similar audiences assembled
  in California, that I am delighted with my visit to the Pacific coast;
  that much as I had heard of the richness and high cultivation,
  what I have seen to-day in this great valley has far surpassed my
  expectations. You have subdued an unpromising soil and made it blossom
  as the rose; but better than all the fruits and harvests, and better
  than all the products of the field, is this intelligent population
  which out of their kindly faces extend to us a greeting wherever we go.

  I am glad, coming from the far East, to observe how greatly our
  people are alike. But that is not surprising, because I find all
  through this valley many Hoosiers and Buckeyes I knew at home. It is
  not singular that you should be alike when you are really and truly
  the same people, not only in lineage and general characteristics, but
  the same men and women we have known in the older States. And now I
  thank you again, and beg you will excuse me from further speech, with
  the assurance that if it were in my power I would double the rich
  blessings which you already enjoy. [Cheers.]




PASADENA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 23.


It was 8 o'clock in the evening when the presidential train rolled into
Pasadena, the home of Governor Markham. The President's reception was
notable for its marked enthusiasm. The committee of escort that met
the party at Riverside was: Hon. J. A. Buchanan, Mayor T. P. Lukens,
ex-Gov. L. A. Sheldon, Col. G. G. Green, Geo. F. Foster, and P. M.
Green. A great assemblage greeted the President's arrival, which was
celebrated by booming cannon, ringing bells, and bonfires. The Committee
of Reception, comprising the following leading citizens, welcomed the
President and escorted him to the hotel: Gov. H. H. Markham, Chairman;
J. H. Holmes, W. U. Masters, C. M. Simpson, Geo. F. Kernaghan, Col. J.
R. Bowler, Delos Arnold, M. M. Parker, W. H. Wiley, W. E. Arthur, J.
W. Wood, Dr. W. L. McAllister, C. D. Daggett, Judge H. W. Magee, James
Clarke, A. B. Manahan, J. W. Scoville, J. E. Farnum, M. D. Painter, T.
Banbury, W. W. Webster, Prof. T. S. C. Lowe, Rev. E. L. Conger, Rev. D.
D. Hill, Rev. J. W. Phelps, Hon. A. G. Throop, F. J. Woodbury, G. B.
Ocheltree, G. A. Greely, W. L. Wotkyns, C. S. Martin, A. R. Metcalfe,
F. C. Bolt, E. R. Hull, Dr. Mohr, John McDonald, Judge A. McCoy, B.
M. Wotkyns, A. K. McQuilling, S. Washburn, T. J. Rigg, T. Earley, C.
S. Cristy, A. C. Armstrong, A. McNally, J. Brockway, J. E. Howard, J.
S. Hodge, C. W. Buchanan, O. S. Picher, Dr. Thomas R. Hayes, M. Fish,
J. R. Greer, Jr., A. K. Nash, C. H. Richardson, J. G. Rossiter, W. T.
Vore, Rev. C. E. Harris, H. H. Rose, J. Banbury, A. Dodworth, Dr. Frary,
Judge M. C. Hester, James H. Campbell, C. C. Brown, A. H. Conger, W. S.
Wright, George Bremner, James McLachlan, J. S. Cox, C. T. Hopkins, O.
E. Weed, J. H. Baker, L. Blankenhorn, W. S. Monroe, George F. Granger,
W. S. Gilmore, Rev. L. P. Crawford, W. E. Channing, A. J. Painter, S.
H. Doolittle, Dr. George Rodgers, E. E. Jones, W. D. McGilvray, Webster
Wotkyns, Theodore Coleman, R. M. Furlong, J. W. Vandevoort, B. E. Ball,
E. T. Howe, H. R. Hertel, Charles Foster, G. R. Thomas, A. F. Mills, Dr.
W. B. Rowland, Dr. F. F. Rowland, Dr. Van Slyck, Rev. J. B. Stewart, D.
R. McLean, C. M. Phillips, C. E. Tebbetts, William Heiss, H. W. Hines,
H. E. Pratt, S. R. Lippincott, J. W. Hugus, W. P. Forsyth, O. Freeman,
S. E. Locke, C. F. Holder, Capt. A. C. Drake, Prof. J. D. Yocum, J. H.
Woodworth, General McBride, W. T. Clapp, E. H. Royce, Charles Legge,
Calvin Hartwell, J. O. Lowe, T. C. Foster, T. L. Hoag, Dr. Ezra F.
Carr, E. H. May, Dr. Mansfield, G. D. Patton, Prof. S. C. Clark, H.
H. Visscher, F. R. Harris, Capt. A. L. Hamilton, J. S. Mills, H. B.
Sherman, R. C. Slaughter, James Smith, S. C. Arnold, I. N. Sears, Chas.
A. Smith, Wm. Menner, S. H. Yocum, D. W. Permar, John Permar, I. N.
Wood, Emil Kayser, N. W. Bell, Rev. E. E. Scannell, Rev. H. T. Staats,
W. R. Staats, F. L. Bushnell, H. C. Allen, Rev. A. W. Bunker, Rev. James
Kelso, Judge J. P. Nelson, C. J. Morrison, M. Rosenbaum, E. S. Frost,
F. B. Wetherby, W. J. McCaldin, A. J. Brown, Dr. Philbrook, Captain
Rogers, Dr. S. P. Swearingen, Fred McNally, J. E. Doty, F. D. Stevens,
O. Stewart Taylor, A. F. M. Strong, C. M. Parker, C. E. Langford, G. E.
Meharry, Maj. C. M. Skillen, Judge B. F. Hoffman, Henry Washburn, Capt.
A. Wakeley, W. S. Nosworthy, J. G. Shoup, Mrs. I. B. Winslow, Geo. W.
Sheaff, Mrs. T. H. Kuhns, P. G. Wooster, A. McLean, F. L. Jones, Dr.
A. H. Palmer, J. J. Allen, E. C. Webster, Arturo Bandini, Will Forbes,
W. W. Mills, Mrs. Dr. Elliott, L. C. Winston, S. S. Vaught, I. N.
Stevenson, John Habbick, Thomas Croft, Wm. J. Craig, M. A. De Forest, R.
K. Janes, C. W. Mann, John Sedwick, Homer Morris, Perry Bonham, Prof.
Kyle, R. W. Lacey, Dr. J. C. Michener, A. A. Choteau, A. O. Bristol, Dr.
J. M. Radebaugh, J. F. Mullen, T. M. Livingston, G. W. Stimson, W. E.
Cooley, W. S. Arnold, W. H. Housh, E. W. Longley, C. W. Hodson, J. D.
Graham, M. E. Wood, F. S. Wallace, Prof. W. P. Hammond, C. S. Howard,
Joseph Wallace, Robert Vandevoort, H. K. W. Bent, John Allen, George
Goings, Jeans James Coleman, Aug. Mayer, Geo. Taylor, J. D. Requa, Rev.
A. M. Merwin, W. B. Mosher, P. F. McGowan, G. A. Gibbs, F. K. Burnham,
and C. E. Brooks.

The women's Reception Committee to receive Mrs. Harrison and the other
ladies in the party consisted of: Mrs. L. A. Sheldon, Mrs. J. A.
Buchanan, Mrs. J. W. Wood, Mrs. C. D. Daggett, Mrs. J. R. Bowler, Mrs.
James Clarke, Miss Greenleaf, Mrs. W. E. Arthur, and Mrs. W. U. Masters.

It was 11 o'clock at night when the President and the gentlemen of his
party attended an elegant banquet at the Hotel Green, over which the
Hon. W. U. Masters presided. Mr. Buchanan proposed the President's
health in words of welcome.

President Harrison, responding, said:

  _Gentlemen_--I beg you to accept my thanks for this banquet spread
  in honor of this community of strangers who have dropped in upon you
  to-night. We come to you after dark. I am not, therefore, prepared to
  speak of Pasadena. When the sun shall have lightened your landscape
  again and our expectant eyes shall have rested upon its glories,
  I shall be able to give you my impressions of your city, which I
  am already prepared to believe is one of the gems in the crown of
  California. [Applause.]

  Perhaps no other place in California has by name been more familiar
  to me than Pasadena, if you except your great commercial city of San
  Francisco. That comes from the fact that many of your early settlers
  were Indiana friends. I am glad to meet some of these friends here
  to-night. It is pleasant to renew these old acquaintances, to find
  that they have been received with esteem in this new community. I
  have found a line of Hoosiers all along these railroads we have been
  traversing.

  Everywhere our train has stopped some Hoosier has lifted his hand to
  me, and often by dozens. As I said the other day, Ohio men identify
  themselves to me by reason of that State being my birthplace, but it
  is not a surprise to me to find an Ohio man anywhere. [Laughter.] Ohio
  people are especially apt to be found in the vicinity of a public
  office. [Laughter.] I suppose whatever good fortune has come to me in
  the way of political preferment must be traced to the fact that I am
  a Buckeye by birth. [Laughter.] And now I thank you most cordially
  again for your attention and kindness. California has been full of the
  most affectionate interest to us. I have never looked into the faces
  of a more happy and intelligent people than those I have seen on the
  Pacific coast. [Applause.]

  You occupy the most important position in the sisterhood of States,
  stretching for these several hundred miles along the Pacific shore.
  You have fortunate birth, and your history has been a succession of
  fortunate surprises. You have wrought out here great achievements in
  converting these plains that seemed to be so unpromising to the eye
  into such gardens as cannot be seen anywhere else upon the continent.
  [Applause.]

  And now, when I remind you that bedtime was 1 o'clock last night and
  the reveille sounded at 6 o'clock this morning on our car, I am sure
  you will permit me to say good-night. [Applause.]




SAN FERNANDO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 24.


The first stop on Friday was at San Fernando, the home of Dr. J. K.
Hawks, who for twenty years was General Harrison's near neighbor. The
Committee of Reception was: R. P. Waite, S. Maclay, J. Burr, J. S.
Kerns, C. Smith, Colonel Hubbard, Mesdames Bodkin, Hubbard, Smith, and
Misses Platt, Gower, and Jennie Hawks.

Dr. Hawks made a brief address of welcome and introduced the President,
who said:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--I am pleased to be introduced to you by my
  old and honored friend, and I do sincerely hope that he has won your
  respect to the same extent which I learned to respect him when he was
  my neighbor. I hope you will excuse me from speaking further. I thank
  you all for your friendly greeting.




SANTA PAULA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 24.


The thriving town of Santa Paula, Ventura County, gave the President
and his party a hearty reception, distinguished above others by a truly
mammoth floral piece 24 feet long by 6 feet in width, covered with
calla-lilies, and bearing the word "Welcome" in red geranium letters
40 inches in height. The Committee of Reception was: W. L. Hardison,
Chairman; Casper Taylor, Rev. F. D. Mather, C. J. McDevitt, F. A.
Morgan, F. E. Davis, J. B. Titus, C. H. McKevett, N. W. Blanchard, Dr.
D. W. Mott, C. N. Baker, A. Wooleven, Harry Youngken, and S. C. Graham.
The Major Eddy Post, G. A. R., Henry Proctor, Commander, was present.

Maj. Joseph R. Haugh, an old Indianapolis acquaintance, welcomed the
President on behalf of the committee. President Harrison, replying, said:

  _My Friends_--I cannot feel myself a stranger in this State, so
  distant from home, when I am greeted by some familiar faces from my
  Indiana home at almost every station. Your fellow-citizen who has
  spoken in your behalf was an old-time Indianapolis friend. I hope he
  is held in the same esteem in which he was held by the people among
  whom he spent his early years as a boy and man. [Cries of "He is!"]
  That you should have gone to the pains to make such magnificent
  decorations and to come out in such large numbers for this momentary
  greeting very deeply touches my heart.

  I have never seen in any State of the Union what seems to me to
  be a more happy and contented people than I have seen this morning.
  Your soil and sun are genial, healthful, and productive, and I have
  no doubt that these genial and kindly influences are manifested in
  the homes that are represented here, and that there is sunshine in
  the household as well as in the fields; that there is contentment
  and love and sweetness in these homes as well as in these gardens
  that are so adorned with flowers. Our pathway has been strewn with
  flowers; we have literally driven for miles over flowers that in
  the East would have been priceless, and these favors have all been
  accompanied with manifestations of friendliness for which I am very
  grateful, and everywhere there has been set up as having greater
  glory than sunshine, greater glory than flowers, this flag of our
  country. [Applause.] Everywhere I have been greeted by some of these
  comrades, veterans of the late war, whose presence among you should
  be the inspiration to increased patriotism and loyalty. I bid them
  affectionate greeting, and am sorry that I cannot tarry with them
  longer. [Cheers.]




SAN BUENAVENTURA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 24.


Three thousand people welcomed the party at San Buenaventura, including
nearly 1,000 school-children, who bounteously provided the President
and Mrs. Harrison with flowers. The Reception Committee consisted of:
Mayor J. S. Collins, J. R. Willoughby, E. M. Jones, P. Bennett, C. D.
Bonestel, N. H. Shaw, and Cushing Post, G. A. R., D. M. Rodibaugh,
Commander.

Gen. William Vandever welcomed the party, and the President spoke as
follows:

  _My Friends_--I am very glad to meet my old friend and your former
  representative, General Vandever. I have had some surprise at almost
  every station at which we have stopped. I did not know until he came
  upon the platform that this was his home. I have not time to make a
  speech, and I have not the voice to make one. I can only say of these
  hearty and friendly Californians that my heart is deeply touched with
  this evidence of friendly regard. You have strewn my way with flowers;
  you have graced every occasion, even the briefest stop, with a most
  friendly greeting, and I assure you that we are most grateful for it
  all. You are fortunate in your location among the States; and I am
  sure that in all this great republic nowhere is there a more loyal and
  patriotic people than we have here on the Pacific coast. I thank you
  again for this greeting. [Cheers.]




SANTA BARBARA, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 24.


The reception at Santa Barbara was the most unique that the presidential
party experienced on their trip, and also one of the most enjoyable; it
was a veritable flower carnival.

Leading the procession was a Spanish cavalcade commanded by Carlos de la
Guerra. The President's escort was a cavalcade of children marshalled
by Mrs. Schermerhorn, with flower-decked saddles and bridles; then
followed over 100 flower-trimmed equipages, each displaying a different
design and flower and bespeaking the marvellous flora of Santa Barbara
in the month of April. The stand from whence the President reviewed
the procession and witnessed the Battle of Flowers was a floral
triumph; 20,000 calla-lilies were used in its decoration and as many
bright-colored flowers. The battle scene occurred on the grand stand,
immediately opposite the reviewing stand, between several hundred
ladies and gentlemen. The whole was a spectacle to be witnessed but
once in a lifetime. The parade was under the direction of Grand Marshal
D. W. Thompson, assisted by special aids George Culbertson, Dr. H.
L. Stambach, T. R. Moore, Samuel Stanwood, Paschal Hocker, and C. A.
Fernald. The Committee of Reception comprised Mayor P. J. Barber, C. F.
Eaton, W. W. Burton, W. C. Clerk, I. G. Waterman, D. Baxter, E. P. Roe,
Jr., C. E. Bigelow, Alston Hayne, Frank Stoddard, L. P. Lincoln, W. N.
Hawley, J. W. Calkins, Geo. A. Edwards, C. C. Hunt, Edward M. Hoit, Hon.
E. H. Heacock, Dr. J. M. McNulta, W. B. Cope, C. F. Swan, W. M. Eddy, J.
C. Wilson, R. B. Canfield; also, Joseph Sexton, of Goleta; E. J. Knapp,
of Carpinteria; T. R. Bard, of Hueneme; R. E. Jack and E. W. Steele,
of San Luis Obispo; H. H. Poland, of Lompoc, and Dr. W. T. Lucas and
Thomas Boyd, of Santa Maria. Starr King Post, G. A. R., C. A. Storke,
Commander, participated in the reception.

After witnessing the parade the entire party, including the ladies,
visited the ancient Mission of Santa Barbara and were taken within its
sacred precincts, it being the second occasion on which any woman was
admitted. At night they witnessed a Spanish dance, conducted by many
ladies and gentlemen, under the direction of F. M. Whitney, Mrs. Bell,
and Mrs. Dibblee. The eventful day closed with a public reception,
participated in by 15,000 people.

Gen. Wm. Vandever delivered an address of welcome, to which the
President, responding, said:

  _General Vandever, Gentlemen of the Committee and Friends_--If I
  have been in any doubt as to the fact of the perfect identity of
  your people with the American Nation, that doubt has been displaced
  by one incident which has been prominent in all this trip, and that
  is that the great and predominant and all-pervading American habit
  of demanding a speech on every occasion has been characteristically
  prominent in California. [Laughter.] I am more than delighted by this
  visit to your city. It has been made brilliant with the display of
  banners and flowers--one the emblem of our national greatness and
  prowess, the other the adornment which God has given to beautify
  nature. With all this I am sure I have read in the faces of the men,
  women and children who have greeted me that these things--these
  flowers of the field and this flag, representing organized
  government--typify what is to be found in the homes of California.
  The expression of your welcome to-day has been unique and tasteful
  beyond description. I have not the words to express the high sense
  of appreciation and the amazement that filled the minds of all our
  party as we looked upon this display which you have improvised for our
  reception. No element of beauty, no element of taste, no element of
  gracious kindness has been lacking in it, and for that we tender you
  all our most hearty thanks. We shall keep this visit a bright spot in
  our memories. [Applause.]




BAKERSFIELD, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


The first stop of the presidential train on Friday, April 25, was at
Bakersfield, the gateway of the famous San Joaquin Valley, which was
reached at 8:30 in the morning. Fifteen hundred residents greeted the
President, who was met by W. E. Houghton, W. H. Scribner, W. Canfield,
and C. E. Sherman, constituting a special Committee of Reception. The
general committee for the occasion comprised the following prominent
citizens: N. R. Packard, E. M. Roberts, John J. Morrison, Emil
Dinkelspiel, H. L. Borgwardt, Jr., J. Neideraur, P. Galtes, O. D. Fish,
H. A. Jastro, Geo. K. Ober, Dr. Helm, J. J. Mack, E. A. Pueschel, S.
N. Reed, H. A. Blodget, C. A. Maul, Chas. E. Jewett, A. Harrell, G. W.
Wear, Wm. Montgomery, John Barker, H. P. Olds, E. Willow, B. Brundage,
B. A. Hayden, F. H. Colton, W. H. Cook, B. Ardizzi, C. C. Cowgill, L.
S. Rogers, John O. Miller, Geo. G. Carr, N. R. Wilkinson, A. Weill, H.
C. Lechner, S. W. Wible, Dr. John Snook, L. McKelvy, A. Morgan, E. C.
Palmes, John S. Drury, W. A. Howell, A. C. Maude, Chas. Vandever, Alonzo
Coons, T. A. Metcalf, R. M. Walker, Richard Hudnut, Sol. Jewett, J. C.
Smith, S. A. Burnap, H. H. Fish, S. W. Fergusson, J. W. Mahon, A. Fay,
Chas. Bickirdike, H. F. Condict, H. C. Park, and I. L. Miller.

A large number of beautiful bouquets were showered upon the party here.
Judge A. R. Conklin made the welcoming address. President Harrison spoke
as follows:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for your friendly
  greeting and for these bouquets. You must excuse me if I seem a little
  shy of the bouquets. I received one in my eye the other day which gave
  me a good deal of trouble. You are very kind to meet us here so early
  in the morning with this cordial demonstration. It has been a very
  long journey, and has been accompanied with some fatigue of travel,
  but we feel this morning, in this exhilarating air and this sweet
  sunshine, and refreshed with your kind greeting, as bright and more
  happy than when we left the national capital.

  I am glad to feel that here, on the western edge of the continent,
  in this Pacific State, there is that same enthusiastic love for the
  flag, that same veneration and respect for American institutions, for
  the one Union and the one Constitution, that is found in the heart
  of the country. We are one people absolutely. We follow not men, but
  institutions. We are happy in the fact that though men may live or
  die, come or go, we still have that toward which the American citizen
  turns with confidence and veneration--this great Union of the States
  devised so happily by our fathers. General Garfield, when Mr. Lincoln
  was stricken down by the foul hand of an assassin, and when that great
  wave of dismay and grief swept over the land, standing in a busy
  thoroughfare of New York, could say: "The Government at Washington
  still lives." It is dependent upon no man. It is lodged safely in the
  affections of the people, and having its impregnable defence and its
  assured perpetuity in their love and veneration for law. [Cheers.]




TULARE, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


Tulare was reached at 10 o'clock. Nearly 6,000 people awaited the
President's arrival. Capt. Thomas H. Thompson, E. W. Holland, and Hon.
O. B. Taylor met the distinguished travellers. The other members of the
committee were: Hon. John. G. Eckles, Hon. J. O. Lovejoy, I. N. Wright,
J. Wolfrom, E. T. Cosper, Hon. J. W. Davis, Sam Richardson, Dr. C. F.
Taggart, M. W. Cooley, H. H. Francisco, C. C. Brock, James Scoon, D. O.
Hamman, J. L. Bachelder, R. B. Bohannan, James Morton, A. O. Erwin, J.
B. Zumwalt, Hon. E. De Witt, Alfred Fay, J. H. Whited, J. A. Goble, W.
L. Blythe, M. M. Burnett, Scott Bowles, R. L. Reid, F. M. Shultz, B. F.
Moore, F. Rosenthal, Henry Peard, Sam Blythe, J. A. Allen, E. Lathrop,
E. J. Cox, J. F. Boller, Hon. G. S. Berry, R. Linder, Miles Ellsworth,
R. N. Hough, C. F. Hall, Dr. E. W. Dutcher, M. Premo, Hon. John Roth,
A. Borders, T. W. Maples, E. D. Lake, S. S. Ingham, D. W. Madden, Sam
Newell, M. C. Hamlin, W. C. Ambrose, H. C. Faber, C. Talbot, L. E.
Schoenemann, M. C. Hunt, G. W. Zartman, A. P. Hall, J. H. Woody, Isaac
Roberts, Capt. E. Oakford, J. C. Gist, H. F. Tandy, C. F. Stone, and Dr.
B. M. Alford.

The committee escorted the presidential party to a unique platform
constructed inside the stump of a gigantic redwood tree, and there was
ample seating capacity upon the platform for the entire party; about the
base of the great stump were arranged boxes of elegant flowers. Mrs.
Harrison and the other ladies in the party were escorted to the stand by
Mrs. E. B. Oakford, Mrs. T. H. Thompson, Mrs. G. J. Reading, and Mrs.
Patrick, of Visalia. Gettysburg Post, G. A. R., and Company E, from
Visalia, were a guard of honor to the Chief Magistrate.

Governor Markham introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--This seems to be a very happy and smiling audience,
  and I am sure that the gladness which is in your hearts and in
  your faces does not depend at all upon the presence of this little
  company of strangers who tarry with you for a moment. It is born of
  influences and conditions that are permanent. It comes of the happy
  sunshine and sweet air that are over your fields, and still more
  from the contentment, prosperity, and love and peace that are in
  your households. California has been spoken of as a wonderland, and
  everywhere we have gone something new, interesting, and surprising has
  been presented to our observation. There has been but one monotone in
  our journey, and that is the monotone of universal welcome from all
  your people. [Cheers.] Everything else has been new and exceptional at
  every stop.

  My own heart kindles with gladness, my own confidence in American
  interests is firmer and more settled as I mingle with the great masses
  of our people. You are here in a great agricultural region, reclaimed
  from desert waste by the skill and energy of man--a region populated
  by a substantial, industrious, thrifty, God-fearing people, a people
  devoted to the institutions under which they live, proud to be
  Americans, feeling that the American birthright is the best heritage
  they can hand down to their children; proud of the great story of
  our country from the time of independence to this day; devoted to
  institutions that give the largest liberty to the individual and at
  the same time secure social order. Here is the firm foundation upon
  which our hopes for future security rest. What but our own neglect,
  what but our own unfaithfulness, can put in peril either our national
  institutions or our local organizations of government? True to
  ourselves, true to those principles which we have embodied in our
  Government, there is to the human eye no danger that can threaten the
  firm base of our institutions.

  I am glad to see and meet these happy children. I feel like kneeling
  to them as the future sovereigns of this country, and feel as if
  it were a profanation to tread upon these sweet flowers that they
  have spread in my pathway. God bless them, every one; keep them in
  the lives they are to live from all that is evil, fill their little
  hearts with sunshine and their mature lives with grace and usefulness.
  [Cheers.]




FRESNO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


A crowd of 10,000 greeted the party at Fresno; upward of 1,000 school
children were present, led by Professors Heaton, Sturges, and Sheldon.
The Committee of Reception consisted of Mayor S. H. Cole, Dr. Chester
A. Rowell, F. G. Berry, Dr. A. J. Pedlar, Dr. St. George Hopkins, W. W.
Phillips, I. N. Pattison, Louis Einstein, Nathan W. Moodey, C. W. De
Long, and J. C. Herrington. Altanta Post, G. A. R., Capt. Fred Banta,
Commander, also Company C, National Guard, Capt. M. W. Muller, and
Company F, Capt. C. Chisholm, participated in the reception. A number
of handsome floral designs and other mementoes were presented to the
several members of the party.

Dr. Rowell delivered the welcoming address. President Harrison,
responding, said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is altogether impossible for me to reach
  with my voice this vast concourse of friends. I can only say I am
  profoundly grateful for this enthusiastic greeting. I receive with
  great satisfaction the memento you have given me of the varied
  products of this most fertile and happy valley. I shall carry it with
  me to Washington as a reminder of a scene that will never fade from
  my memory. It is very pleasant to know that all these pursuits that
  so much engage your thoughts and so industriously employ your time
  have not turned your minds away from the love of the flag and of those
  institutions which spread their secure power over all your homes. What
  is it that makes the scattered homes of our people secure? There is no
  policeman at the door; there is no guard to accompany us as we move
  across this great continent. You and I are in the safe keeping of the
  law and of the affection and regard of all our people. Each respects
  the rights of the other. I am glad to receive this manifestation of
  your respect. I am glad to drink in this morning with this sunshine
  and this sweet balmy air a new impulse to public duty, a new love
  for the Union and flag. It is a matter of great regret that I can
  return in such a small measure your affectionate greeting. I wish it
  were possible I could greet each one of you personally, that it were
  possible in some way other than in words to testify to you my grateful
  sense of your good-will. [Cheers.]




MERCED, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


The presidential party arrived at Merced shortly after noon and was
welcomed by several thousand enthusiastic residents. The Committee of
Reception was composed of the following representative citizens: E. T.
Dixon, Maj. G. B. Cook, L. R. Fancher, C. H. Marks, E. M. Stoddard, S.
A. D. Jones, Frank Howell, W. J. Quigley, M. Goldman, C. E. Fleming, J.
H. Rogers, J. A. Norvell, Thomas Harris, Maj. C. Ralston, F. H. Farrar,
R. N. Hughes, Judge J. K. Law, Thomas H. Leggett, and H. J. Ostrander.
Hancock Post, G. A. R., J. Q. Blackburn, Commander, participated in the
reception. Three little girls, Dottie Norvell, Mattie Hall, and Baby
Ingalsbe, representing the citizens of Merced, presented Mrs. Harrison
with a beautiful souvenir in the shape of a large American flag woven
from roses and violets.

Chairman Dixon made the welcoming address, and President Harrison
replied in the following words:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have scarcely been able to finish a meal
  since I have been in California. [Laughter.] I find myself hardly
  seated at the table till some one reminds me that in about five
  minutes I am to meet another throng of cordial and friendly people.
  But I think I could have subsisted on this trip through California
  without anything to eat, and have dined the while upon the stimulus
  and inspiration which your good-will and kindly greetings have
  given me. I do not think, however, from what I have seen of these
  valleys, that it will be necessary for anyone to live without eating.
  [Laughter.] I have been greatly delighted with the agricultural
  richness, with the surprises in natural scenery, and in the production
  which have met us on this journey. Everywhere something has been
  lying in ambush for us, and when I was thinking of prunes and English
  walnuts and oranges we suddenly pulled up to a station where they had
  a pyramid of pig tin to excite our wonder and interest at the variety
  of the production in this marvellous State. But let me say, above all
  those fruits and flowers, above all these productions of mine and
  field, I have been most pleased with the men and women of California.
  [Applause.] It gives me great pleasure, too, to meet everywhere
  these little ones. I am fond of children. They attract my interest
  always, and the little ones of my own household furnish about the only
  relaxation and pleasure I have at Washington. [Applause.] I wish for
  your children and for you, out of whose homes they come, and where
  they are treasured with priceless affection and tender supervision,
  all the blessings that a benign Providence and a good Government
  can bestow. I shall be glad if in any way I have the opportunity to
  conserve and promote your interests. [Cheers.]




MODESTO, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


Modesto was reached at 2:40 P.M. The veterans of Grant Post, G. A.
R., with Company D, N. G. C., and several hundred citizens, gave the
President a rousing greeting. The Committee of Reception was Hon. John
S. Alexander, Charles A. Post, and Rev. Dr. Webb.

George Perley introduced President Harrison, who spoke as follows:

  _Fellow-citizens_--It is very pleasant for me to meet here,
  as at all the stations I have passed, a kindly assembly of my
  fellow-countrymen. We do not need any one to watch us, nor do we need
  to keep watch against anybody else. Peace and good-will characterize
  our communities. I was quite amused at a station not far from here to
  hear a wondering Chinaman remark as he came up to the train, "Why,
  they have no guns on board!" [Laughter.] How different it is with
  us!--no retinue, no guards. We travel across this broad country safe
  in the confidence and fellowship and kindness of its citizenship. What
  other land is there like it? Where else are there homes like ours?
  Where else institutions so free and yet so adequate to all the needs
  of government, to make the home and community safe, to restrain the
  ill-disposed, and everywhere to promote peace and individual happiness?

  We congratulate each other that we are American citizens. Without
  distinction of party, without taking note of the many existing
  differences of opinion, we are all glad to do all in our power to
  promote the dignity and prosperity of the country we love. We cannot
  love it too much; we cannot be too careful that all our influence is
  on the side of good government and of American interests. We do not
  wish ill to any other nation or people in the world, but they must
  excuse us if we regard our own fellow-citizens as having the highest
  claim on our regard. We will promote such measures as look to our own
  interests. [Cheers.]




LATHROP, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 25.


The President's arrival at Lathrop was celebrated by several thousand
residents, re-enforced by large delegations from the neighboring city
of Stockton. The Committee of Reception consisted of James J. Sloan,
A. Henry Stevens, Z. T. White, O. H. P. Bailey, E. Jesurun, T. B.
Walker, W. S. Reyner, D. Sanguinite, Geo. H. Seay, O. D. Wilson, C. F.
Sherburne, F. D. Simpson, and F. J. Walker. The Committee of Reception
appointed by the Mayor of Stockton, and participating in behalf of that
city, was J. K. Doak, F. J. Ryan, I. S. Haines, Willis Lynch, H. R.
McNoble, J. M. Dormer, and F. T. Baldwin. A feature of the reception
was 100 school children, each carrying a bouquet, which they presented
to the President and Mrs. Harrison, both of whom kissed several of the
little donors. Postmaster Sloan delivered the welcoming address. The
President, responding, said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I should be less than human if I were not
  touched by the rapid succession of hearty greetings received by us in
  our journey through California. I should be more than human if I were
  able to say something new or interesting at each of these assemblies.

  My heart has but one language: it is, "I thank you."

  Most tenderly do I feel as an individual so much of this kindness
  as is personal to me, and as a public official I am most profoundly
  grateful that the American people so unitedly show their love and
  devotion to the Constitution and the flag.

  We have a Government of the majority; it is the original compact
  that when the majority has been fairly counted at the polls, the
  expressed will of that majority, taking the form of public law enacted
  by State Legislatures or the national Congress, shall be the sole rule
  of conduct of every loyal man. [Cheers.]

  We have no other king than law, and he is entitled to the allegiance
  of every heart and bowed knee of every citizen. [Cries of "Good!
  good!" and cheers.]

  I cannot look forward with any human apprehension to any danger to
  our country, unless it approaches us through a corrupt ballot-box.
  [Applause.] Let us keep that spring pure, and these happy valleys
  shall teem with an increasing population of happy citizens, and our
  country shall find in an increasing population only increased unity
  and strength. [Cheers.]




SAN FRANCISCO, APRIL 25.


At Keyes Station, near Merced, the presidential train was joined by a
special car containing the San Francisco escort committee. The following
gentlemen composed the party and represented the organizations named:
Mexican Veterans--Maj. R. P. Hammond. California Pioneers--L. L.
Baker, W. B. Farwell, Nathaniel Holland, and Col. A. W. von Schmidt.
Citizens' Committee--E. S. Pillsbury, J. B. Crockett, M. M. Estee,
Irving M. Scott, W. D. English, and Rev. Dr. Samuel V. Leech. Loyal
Legion and Grand Army of the Republic--Chief Engineer J. W. Moore, U.
S. N., Commander Loyal Legion; Past Senior Vice-Commander-in-Chief S.
W. Backus; Past Department Commanders W. H. Aiken, E. Carlson, C. Mason
Kinne, W. A. Robinson, R. H. Marfield, W. R. Smedburg, E. S. Salomon, T.
H. Goodman, G. E. Gard, and A. J. Buckles; Past Junior Vice-Commander
Jesse B. Fuller, Adjt.-Gen. T. C. Mastellar, Past Commander J. M.
Litchfield, Congressmen E. F. Loud and John T. Cutting, comrades J. P.
Meehan, S. S. Flint, and A. J. Hawes.

Seven o'clock Saturday evening the boom of cannon and clang of bells
signalized the President's arrival at Oakland, where he immediately
embarked on the ferry steamer _Piedmont_ for passage across the bay.
On board the _Piedmont_, in addition to the veteran guard of the G. A.
R., commanded by Capt. Geo. F. Knowlton, Jr., and Lieutenants Wiegand,
Franks and Stateler, were the following prominent residents: Senator
and Mrs. Leland Stanford, A. N. Towne, R. H. Platt, A. J. Bolfing,
H. C. Bunker, C. F. Bassett, Maj. J. N. E. Wilson, Capt. G. D. Boyd,
J. C. Quinn, Geo. L. Seybolt, George Sanderson, J. Steppacher, Ass't
Postmaster Richardson, G. W. Fletcher, Mrs. Peter Donohue, Mrs. Geo. R.
Sanderson, Mrs. James Denman, Mrs. W. W. Morrow, Mrs. Joseph McKenna,
Mrs. M. Ehrman, Mrs. E. Martin, and Mrs. J. D. Spreckels. The scene of
the _Piedmont_ crossing the bay, illuminated with thousands of lights,
covered with flying flags, and greeted by all the craft in the harbor
with myriads of rockets and lights, was a bewildering spectacle. At a
signal great tongues of flame shot up from the summits of Telegraph and
Nob hills, and the monstrous bonfires from the deck of the _Piedmont_
resembled volcanoes. The entire population of the city came out to
do honor to the head of the Nation, and the principal streets were
beautifully illuminated.

As the President descended on the arm of Hon. W. W. Morrow he was met on
the wharf by Mayor George H. Sanderson, Col. Basil Norris, Lieut.-Col.
Geo. H. Burton, Lieut.-Col. John P. Hawkins, Maj. Frank M. Coxe, Maj.
Edward Hunter, Maj. James H. Lord, Capt. Chas. N. Booth, and First
Lieutenants L. A. Lovering and James E. Runcie, of the regular army;
General Dickinson and staff and city officials. Mayor Sanderson formally
welcomed the President and presented him a beautiful gold tablet bearing
a resolution of the Board of Supervisors tendering the freedom of the
city and county of San Francisco.

In response the President said:

  _Mr. Mayor_--I have received with great gratification these words
  of welcome which you have extended to me on behalf of the city of San
  Francisco. They are but new expressions of the welcome which has been
  extended to me since I entered the State of California. Its greatness
  and glory I knew something of by story and tradition, but what I have
  seen of its resources has quite surpassed my imagination. But what
  has deeply impressed me is the loyal and intelligent and warm-hearted
  people I have everywhere met. I thank you for this reception.




SAN FRANCISCO, APRIL 27.


Monday, April 27, the President and his party reviewed many thousand
school children assembled on Van Ness Avenue. Escorted by Mayor
Sanderson, General Ruger, and other distinguished citizens, the party
were driven through the famous Golden Gate Park. At the entrance the
President was met and welcomed by Park Commissioner Hammond, while
awaiting the guests inside was a reception committee consisting of E. S.
Pilsbury, W. D. English, General Sheehan, Chief Crowley, C. F. Crocker,
Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Wilshire, Judge Hawley, of Nevada, ex-Mayor Pond,
Colonel Taylor, Marshal Long, Park Commissioner Austin, Mr. and Mrs.
Francis G. Newlands, Samuel Shortridge, C. M. Leavy, Surveyor-General
Pratt, Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Le Count, Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Danforth, Colonel
and Mrs. J. B. Wright, of Sacramento, Mr. and Mrs. Wendell Easton, Mr.
Gregory, Mr. and Mrs. Paris Kilbourn, Mr. and Mrs. Timothy G. Phelps,
Senator Carpenter, of Los Angeles, Miss Harriet Bolinger, Mr. and Mrs.
Bolinger, District Attorney Garter, Mrs. Judge W. T. Wallace, F. W.
Sharon, T. B. Shannon, Mrs. B. L. Haseltine, and others.

The reception concluded, the drive was continued to the Cliff House,
overlooking Seal Rocks; from thence the party visited Sutro Heights and
became the guests of Mr. Adolph Sutro. At the close of luncheon Mr.
Sutro, addressing President Harrison, said in part:

  _Mr. President_--I rise to present you a photo-lithographic letter
  written by Sebastian Viscano, the great Spanish navigator. This is
  probably the first letter in existence written by any human being from
  California. It is dated at the port of Monterey, December 28, 1602,
  named in honor of the Conde de Monterey, then Viceroy of Mexico. It
  is addressed to the Court of Spain, and states that he (Viscano) had
  taken possession of this country for his majesty.

  The original of this letter I found in hunting through the Archives
  de las Indias at Seville, Spain. At the date of this letter Queen
  Elizabeth was still on the throne of England, Louis XIV. of France was
  not born yet, and the Pilgrim Fathers had not yet landed on Plymouth
  Rock.

  Mr. President, we all thank you for having come to see our beautiful
  land, and permit me especially to thank you for the honor of your
  visit to Sutro Heights.

With the closing words Mr. Sutro extended to the President a red plush
album inclosing the letter. President Harrison, in accepting it, said:

  I beg to thank you both for this letter and your generous welcome
  to a spot the natural beauty of which has been so much enhanced by
  your efforts. My visit to Sutro Heights, the cliff, and park will be a
  red-letter day in my journey.

The next visit was to the Presidio, where the President and
General Ruger witnessed the brilliant manoeuvres of the troops.
Lieutenant-Colonel Graham was in command; Captain Zalinski was the
officer of the day. Captain Morris led the heavy artillery; Captains
Brinkle and Kinzie commanded the mounted batteries; Colonel Mills headed
the cavalry aided by Captains Wood and Dorst.


_Phi Delta Theta._

In the evening the President attended a banquet in his honor by
California Alpha Chapter of the State University of the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity, of which Mr. Harrison is a member. George E. de Golbia
presided. When the President arrived he was greeted with the fraternity
cheer. J. N. E. Wilson introduced the honored guest and proposed the
health of "the President."

General Harrison, responding, said:

  _My Friends and Brothers in this Old Society_--I enjoy this moment
  very much in being able to associate with you. I was a member of the
  first chapter of this fraternity, which you all know was founded at
  Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. I have not lost the impression of
  solemnity and reverence which I experienced hunting in the dark in
  those early times to find my chapter room, and I am very glad to know
  that those meetings were not meetings in the dark. I belonged to the
  order when it was young, and now I find its members scattered in all
  States, where they all hold positions of trust and influence. I find
  that in its history it has produced nothing discreditable to itself,
  but always something of which we may all well be proud. I thank you
  for these few moments of association with you. [Cheers.]

At night President and Mrs. Harrison, Secretary Rusk, and
Postmaster-General Wanamaker attended an official card reception at the
Palace Hotel, tendered by the citizens of San Francisco. The visitors
were introduced by Col. J. P. Jackson and George R. Sanderson. The
occasion was one of unusual brilliancy, rendered especially so by the
presence of Admiral A. E. K. Benham and the officers of the fleet, Gen.
Thomas H. Ruger, Gen. G. D. Green, Gen. John P. Hawkins, Gen. John G.
Chandler, Col. Geo. N. Burton, and a hundred or more other officers of
the regular army; Governor Markham and staff in full uniform, Maj. Gen.
W. H. Dimond and staff, Gen. J. H. Dickinson, and scores of officers
of the National Guard, and a thousand or more private citizens of
prominence accompanied by their wives.




SAN FRANCISCO, APRIL 28.

_Launch of the Monterey._


Tuesday, April 28, the President enjoyed an excursion on the bay on
board the steamer _Puebla_. Following the _Puebla_ came the cruiser
_Charleston_, literally covered with bunting, and with booming guns,
leading a long line of vessels. The presidential party was accompanied
by Mayor Sanderson, Colonel Andrews, Supervisor Jackson, Colonel
Marceau, Colonel Chadbourne, General Gibbon, Collector Phelps, Capt. C.
M. Goodall, General Cutting, W. T. Coleman, Wm. Dargie, W. G. Harrison,
W. D. English, Stewart Menzies, Judge Murphy, Judge Troutt, Barry
Baldwin, A. E. Castle, A. Chesebrough, Martin Corcoran, W. D. Clarke,
W. R. Hearst, J. G. Fair, W. J. Dutton, W. F. Goad, Wm. Harney, John P.
Irish, J. D. Spreckels, Leon Sloss, Levi Strauss, A. W. Scott, W. S.
Tevis, C. L. Taylor, J. H. Wise, C. E. Whitney, R. J. Wilson, James. D.
Phelan, R. H. Pease, Arthur Rodgers, F. W. Sumner, F. J. Symmes, N. T.
James, G. L. Bradner, C. F. Mullins, Geo. A. Moore, T. C. Grant, and
other gentlemen of prominence.

In the afternoon, at the Union Iron Works, the President and Mrs.
Harrison participated in the launch of the armored coast-defence vessel
_Monterey_. Mrs. Harrison pressed the button which signalized the
launching of the great ship, and Miss Gunn, daughter of J. O'B. Gunn,
christened the ship with a bottle of California champagne. On the
platform with the President's party were Henry T. Scott and Irving M.
Scott, builders of the _Monterey_; master shipwright Geo. W. Dickie,
Governor Markham, and other prominent people.

In the evening the distinguished visitors attended a banquet and
reception at the mansion of Senator and Mrs. Leland Stanford. Nineteen
couples sat down at the sumptuous table. They comprised the President
and Mrs. Stanford, Senator Stanford and Mrs. Harrison, Governor Markham
and Mrs. Lowe, General Wanamaker and Mrs. Benham, Secretary Rusk and
Mrs. Markham, General Ruger and Mrs. Russell Harrison, Admiral Benham
and Mrs. Morrow, Col. Lloyd Tevis and Mrs. Dimmick, Mayor Sanderson
and Mrs. Boyd, Hon. M. M. Estee and Mrs. Moses Hopkins, Col. C. F.
Crocker and Miss Houghton, Senator Felton and Mrs. McKee, Mr. Russell
B. Harrison and Mrs. T. Hopkins, Col. J. P. Jackson and Mrs. Dodge,
Mr. Geo. W. Boyd and Mrs. Hewes, Hon. W. W. Morrow and Mrs. Estee, Mr.
Irving M. Scott and Mrs. Jackson, Major Sanger and Mrs. Gwin, Mr. H.
L. Dodge and Mrs. Easton. In the Pompeiian parlor of the mansion the
President, with Mrs. Harrison and Senator and Mrs. Stanford, received
the thousand or more guests, who comprised the prominent society people
of San Francisco and many other cities on the coast.




REDWOOD CITY, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 29.


Leaving San Francisco on Wednesday, April 29, the President spent the
morning at Senator Stanford's famous Palo Alto ranch. The first stop _en
route_ to Monterey was at Redwood City, where a large and enthusiastic
crowd, including 200 school children, welcomed the President. Geo. S.
Evans Post, G. A. R., C. D. Harkins, Commander, was present. Among
the prominent citizens participating were: H. R. Judah, of San Mateo;
Geo. C. Ross, W. R. Welch, Geo. W. Lovie, John Poole, Henry Buger,
Sheriff Kinne, Marshal Jamieson, and Judge Geo. H. Buck, who delivered
the speech of welcome and presented the President, on behalf of the
citizens, with a polished redwood tablet two feet in width.

As the train moved off President Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--I am sorry that I can say nothing more to you in
  the limited time we have than that I am sincerely thankful for your
  friendly demonstration.




SAN JOSÉ, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 29.


Arriving at San José the President remained an hour and reviewed a
parade in his honor. He was received at the depot by Mayor S. N.
Rucker at the head of the following Committee of Reception: Judge John
Reynolds, Judge F. E. Spencer, D. B. Moody, R. O. Shively, S. F. Lieb,
V. A. Schellar, C. M. Shortridge, T. E. Beans, L. G. Nesmith, C. T.
Ryland, O. A. Hale, H. W. Wright, J. W. Rea, C. T. Park, A. McDonald, C.
T. Settle, H. M. Leonard, B. D. Murphy, J. H. Henry, A. E. Mintie, S. F.
Ayer, Judge W. G. Lorigan, and H. V. Morehouse. Mayor Rucker delivered
the address of welcome at the court house.

President Harrison, responding, said.

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I am again surprised by this large
  outpouring of my friends and by the respectful interest which they
  evince. I cannot find words to express the delight which I have felt
  and which those who journey with me have felt as we have observed
  the beauty and, more than all, the comfort and prosperity which
  characterize the great State of California. I am glad to observe here,
  as I have elsewhere, that my old comrades of the great war for the
  Union have turned out to witness afresh by this demonstration their
  love for the flag and their veneration for American institutions.

  My comrades, I greet you, every one, affectionately. I doubt not
  that every loyal State has representatives here of that great army
  that subdued the rebellion and brought home the flag in triumph. I
  hope that you have found in this flowery and prosperous land, in the
  happy homes which you have builded up here, in the wives and children
  that grace your firesides, a sweet contrast to those times of peril
  and hardship which you experienced in the army, and I trust above all
  that under these genial and kindly influences you still maintain your
  devotion to our institutions and are teaching it to the children that
  shall take your places.

  We often speak of the children following in the footsteps of
  their fathers. A year ago nearly, in Boston, at the great review of
  the Grand Army of the Republic, after those thousands of veterans,
  stricken with years and labor, had passed along, a great army, nearly
  as large, came on with the swinging step that characterized you when
  you carried the flag from your home to the field. They were the sons
  of veterans, literally marching in their fathers' steps; and so I love
  to think that in the hands of this generation that is coming on to
  take our places our institutions are safe and the honor and glory of
  the flag will be maintained. We may quietly go to our rest when God
  shall call us, in the full assurance that His favoring providence will
  follow us, and that in your children valor and sacrifice for the flag
  will always manifest themselves on every occasion.

  Again thanking you for your presence and friendly interest, I must
  beg you to excuse further speech, as we must journey on to other
  scenes like this. Good-by and God bless you, comrades.




GILROY, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 29.


Two thousand people welcomed the President on his arrival at Gilroy at 6
o'clock in the evening. The floral decorations were particularly fine;
the piece attracting the greatest attention was a life-size white bear
made of tea-roses. The Committee of Reception was Mayor Loupe, Thomas
Rea, Geo. E. Hersey, Victor Bassignsno, F. W. Blake, Professor Hall, and
Messrs. Eckhart, Casey, and Cleveland.

Mayor Loupe introduced the President, who made one of his briefest
speeches. He said:

  _My Friends_--It gives me great pleasure to see you for a moment,
  and thank you for your kindness in coming out on this occasion. In
  all my travels I have never seen a more intelligent and happy people
  than I have met in California. Let me introduce you to Mr. Wanamaker.




WATSONVILLE, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 29.


At Pajaro Station the presidential party was welcomed by the Board of
Trustees and 2,000 residents of the thriving city of Watsonville, in
the beautiful Pajaro Valley. Six hundred school children and a young
ladies' zouave company participated in the greeting. The Committee of
Reception comprised the Board of Trustees, E. H. Madden, T. J. Horgan,
James A. Linscott, H. P. Brassell, and the following prominent citizens
of Watsonville: W. A. Sanborn, A. B. Hawkins, Geo. A. Shearer, Geo. W.
Peckham, W. R. Radcliff, J. A. Hetherington, James Waters, Mark Hudson,
Geo. A. Trafton, John T. Porter, John F. Kane, and F. E. Mauk; also,
Wm. Wilson and C. E. Bowman, representing the town of Corralitos, and
C. R. Whitcher, Jr., representing Castroville. Chairman Madden made the
welcoming address.

The President said:

  _My Friends_--I am very glad to see you this evening. I am sorry
  that the fatigues of the past few days have left us all in a state
  not quite so fresh and blooming as your fields and gardens. We are a
  little dusty and a little worn, but you quite rekindle our spirits by
  this demonstration. We have ridden with great delight through this
  beautiful valley to-day. It seems to me, as we pass each ridge or
  backbone and come into a new valley, that we see something that still
  more resembles the Garden of Eden. It is a constant succession of
  surprises, but most of all I delight to see such convincing evidence
  of the contentment and happiness of your people. I am sure that those
  I see here to-day must come from happy and prosperous homes. I wish
  you all good-by. [Cheers.]




MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, APRIL 30.


The presidential party arrived at Del Monte depot at 8 o'clock Wednesday
evening and were the guests of Manager Schonewald, of the famous Hotel
Del Monte. The next morning the distinguished travellers were driven
over to Monterey, the historic old capital of California; they were
met at the outskirts by the City Trustees and a committee of prominent
citizens, among whom were: C. I. Burks, Capt. Thomas Bralee, Francis
Doud, David Rodrick, F. R. Day, Edward Ingram, Job Wood, Thomas Doud,
J. T. Stockdale, Jacob R. Leese, Wm. Kay, A. A. Osio, and H. Whitcomb.
The reception was held on the grounds fronting the old Capitol--now
used as a school-house. After the reception the visitors were taken on
an 18-mile drive through the parks and groves along the Pacific Ocean.
Mayor W. J. Hill, of Salinas, delivered the address of welcome on behalf
of the citizens of Monterey and Salinas, and presented the President
with a silver plate engraved with a fac-simile of the old Custom House
and the words "The Custom House where the American flag was first raised
in California, July 7, 1846. Monterey, April 30, 1891. Greeting to our
President."

In response the President said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--Our whole pathway through the State
  of California has been paved with good-will. We have been made to walk
  upon flowers. Our hearts have been touched and refreshed at every
  point by the voluntary offerings of your hospitable people. Our trip
  has been one continued ovation of friendliness. I have had occasion
  to say before that no man is entitled to appropriate to himself these
  tributes. They witness a peculiar characteristic of the American
  people. Unlike many other people less happy, we give our devotion to
  a Government, to its Constitution, to its flag, and not to men. We
  reverence and obey those who have been placed by our own suffrages
  and choice in public stations, but our allegiance, our affection, is
  given to our beneficent institutions, and upon this rock our security
  is based. We are not subject to those turbulent uprisings that prevail
  where the people follow leaders rather than institutions; where they
  are caught by the glamour and dash of brilliant men rather than by the
  steady law of free institutions.

  I rejoice to be for a moment among you this morning. The history
  of this city starts a train of reflections in my mind that I cannot
  follow out in speech, but the impression of them will remain with me
  as long as I live. [Applause.] California and its coast were essential
  to the integrity and completeness of the American Union. But who
  can tell what may be the result of the establishment here of free
  institutions, the setting up by the wisdom and foresight and courage
  of the early pioneers in California of a commonwealth that was very
  early received into the American Union? We see to-day what has been
  wrought. But who can tell what another century will disclose, when
  these valleys have become thick with a prosperous and thriving and
  happy people? I thank you again for your cordial greeting and bid you
  good-morning. [Cheers.]




SANTA CRUZ, CALIFORNIA, MAY 1.


At 8 o'clock Friday morning the presidential train halted at Santa Cruz,
the City of the Holy Cross, where another floral greeting awaited the
distinguished guests. They were met by Mayor G. Bowman at the head of a
committee of prominent citizens, among whom were: Col. Thomas P. Robb,
W. P. Young, Dr. T. W. Drullard, W. Finkeldey, O. J. Lincoln, W. J.
McCollum, A. L. Weeks, P. R. Hinds, W. H. Galbraith, E. C. Williams,
Duncan McPherson, Wm. T. Jeter, A. A. Taylor, W. D. Storey, F. A.
Hihn, Z. N. Goldsby, Richard Thompson, R. C. Kirby, J. H. Logan, A. J.
Jennings, Judge McCann, J. F. Cunningham, Benj. Knight, Z. Barnet, E. C.
Williams, and J. T. Sullivan. Grand Marshal J. O. Wanzer, with his aids,
U. S. Nichols, M. S. Patterson, H. Fay, W. D. Haslam, R. H. Pringle, W.
C. Hoffman, and George Chittenden, acted as an escort of honor to the
President during the parade. When the Pacific Ocean House was reached
Mayor Bowman made a welcoming address. After the reception the party
visited the grove of big trees near the city.

As the President arose to respond the great audience cheered
enthusiastically. He said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--It seems to me like improvidence
  that all this tasteful and magnificent display should be but for a
  moment. In all my journeying in California, where every city has
  presented some surprise and where each has been characterized by
  lavish and generous display, I have not seen anything so suddenly
  created and yet so beautiful. I am sure we have not ridden through
  any street more attractive than this. I thank you most sincerely for
  this cordial welcome. I am sure you are a loyal, and I know you are a
  loving and kindly people. [Cheers.] We have been received, strangers
  as we were, with affection, and everywhere as I look into the faces of
  this people I feel my heart swell with pride that I am an American and
  that California is one of the American States. [Cheers.]




LOS GATOS, CALIFORNIA, MAY 1.


The first stop after leaving Santa Cruz was at Los Gatos, overlooking
the Santa Clara Valley, where a large assemblage welcomed the party. The
Committee of Reception comprised the Board of Town Trustees and W. H. B.
Trantham, James H. Lyndon, G. A. Dodge, and C. F. Wilcox. E. O. C. Ord
Post, G. A. R., James G. Arthur, Commander, was out in full force.

Chairman J. W. Lyndon made the address of welcome and introduced
President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow citizens_--If California had lodged a complaint against
  the last census I should have been inclined to entertain it and to
  order your people to be counted again. [Laughter.] From what I have
  seen in these days of pleasant travel through your State I am sure
  the census enumerators have not taken you all. We have had another
  surprise in coming over these mountains to find that not the valleys
  alone of California, but its hill-tops are capable of productive
  cultivation. We have been greatly surprised to see vineyards and
  orchards at these altitudes, and to know that your fields rival in
  productiveness the famous valleys of your State.

  I thank you for your cordial greeting. It overpowers me I feel that
  these brief stops are but poor recompense for the trouble and care
  you have taken. I wish we could tarry longer with you. I wish I could
  know more of you individually, but I can only thank you and say that
  we will carry away most happy impressions of California, and that in
  public and in private life it will give me pleasure always to show my
  appreciation of your great State. [Cheers.]




SAN FRANCISCO, MAY 1.

_Chamber of Commerce Reception._


The President returned to San Francisco from his trip to Monterey and
Santa Cruz at noon Friday, May 1. He was met across the bay by W. W.
Montague, Geo. C. Perkins, and Oliver Eldridge, constituting a committee
of escort from the Chamber of Commerce. Arrived at the Chamber of
Commerce the President was met by the following Reception Committee,
trustees of the Chamber, composed of: William L. Merry, A. J. Ralston,
W. T. Y. Schenck, Robert Watt, A. R. Briggs, James Carolan, N. W.
Spaulding, General Dimond, John Rosenfeld, Charles R. Allen, J. J.
McKinnon, C. B. Stone, and Louis Parrott. On the floor of the Merchants'
Exchange the President was greeted by a great and enthusiastic assembly,
composed of members of the following bodies invited to participate in
the reception: Mexican War Veterans, Society of Pioneers, Territorial
Pioneers, Geographical Society, Art Association, Geological Society,
State Board of Trade, Board of Trade of the city, Bar Association,
Bankers' Association, Produce Exchange, San Francisco Stock Exchange,
Merchants' Exchange, Boards of Brokers, Boards of Marine Institute,
Chamber of Commerce, Manufacturers' Association, and California Academy
of Sciences. Colonel Taylor, President of the Chamber of Commerce,
delivered an able address upon the trade of the Pacific coast, and
closed by cordially welcoming President Harrison, Postmaster-General
Wanamaker, and Secretary Rusk.

When the President arose to respond he was greeted with a storm of
applause. His address was punctured throughout with cheers. He said:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen of these Assembled Societies_--I have
  been subjected during my stay in California in some respects to
  the same treatment the policeman accords to the tramp--I have been
  kept moving on. You have substituted flowers and kindness for the
  policeman's baton. And yet, notwithstanding all this, we come to you
  this morning not exhausted or used up, but a little fatigued. Your
  cordial greetings are more exhilarating than your wine, and perhaps
  safer for the constitution. [Laughter and applause.]

  I am glad to stand in the presence of this assemblage of business
  men. I have tried to make this a business Administration. [Applause.]
  Of course we cannot wholly separate politics from a national
  Administration, but I have felt that every public officer owed his
  best service to the people, without distinction of party [cries of
  "Good! good!" and applause]; that in administering official trusts
  we were in a very strict sense, not merely in a figurative sense,
  your servants. It has been my desire that in every branch of the
  public service there should be improvement. I have stimulated all the
  Secretaries and have received stimulus from them in the endeavor, in
  all the departments of the Government that touch your business life,
  to give you as perfect a service as possible. This we owe to you; but
  if I were pursuing party ends I should feel that I was by such methods
  establishing my party in the confidence of the people. [Applause.]

  I feel that we have come to a point where American industries,
  American commerce, and American influence are to be revived and
  extended. The American sentiment and feeling was never more
  controlling than now; and I do not use that term in the narrow sense
  of native American, but to embrace all loyal citizens, whether
  native-born or adopted, who have the love of our flag in their hearts.
  [Great cheering.] I shall speak to-night, probably, at the banquet of
  business men, and will not enter into any lengthy discussion here.
  Indeed, I am so careful not to trespass upon any forbidden topic,
  that I may not in the smallest degree offend those who have forgotten
  party politics in extending this greeting to us, that I do not know
  how far I should talk upon these public questions. But since your
  Chairman has alluded to them, I can say I am in hearty sympathy with
  the suggestions he has made. I believe there are methods by which
  we shall put the American flag upon the sea again. [Applause.] In
  speaking the other day I used an illustration which will perhaps be
  apt in this company of merchants. You recall, all of you, certainly
  those of my age, the time when no merchant sent out travelling men. He
  expected the buyer to come to his store. Perhaps that was well enough;
  but certain enterprising men sought custom by putting travelling men
  with samples on the road. However the conservative merchant regarded
  that innovation, he had but one choice--to put travelling men on the
  road or go out of business. In this question of shipping we are in a
  similar condition. The great commercial governments of the world have
  stimulated their shipping interests by direct or indirect subsidies,
  while we have been saying: "No, we prefer the old way." We must
  advance or--I will not say go out of business, for we have already
  gone out. [Applause.] I thank you most cordially for your greeting,
  and bid you good-by. [Applause.]




ADDRESS TO THE VETERANS, MAY 1.


From the Chamber of Commerce the President and his party were escorted
to the Mechanics' Pavilion by the Veteran Guard under Captain Knowlton,
preceded and followed by Lincoln, Garfield, Cass, Meade, Liberty, and
Geo. Sykes posts, G. A. R. Fully 10,000 children and citizens were
assembled to witness the May Day festivities under the auspices of
the G. A. R. posts. Escorted by Grand Marshal Saloman, the President
advanced to the stage and was received by Hon. Henry C. Dibble, who
presented him to the throng of veterans and children.

He spoke as follows:

  _Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic_--It will not be
  possible in so large a hall for me to make myself heard, and yet I
  cannot refuse when appealed to to say a word of kindly greeting to
  those comrades who have found their homes on the Pacific coast. I have
  no doubt that all the loyal States of the Union are represented in
  this assembly, and it is pleasant to know that, after the strife and
  hardships of those years of battle, you have found among the flowers
  and fruits of the earth homes that are full of pleasantness and peace.

  It was that these things might continue to be that you went to
  battle; it was that these homes might be preserved; it was that the
  flag and all that it symbolizes might be perpetuated, that you fought
  and many of our comrades died. All this land calls you blessed. The
  fruits of division and strife that would have been ours if secession
  had succeeded would have been full of bitterness. The end that was
  attained by your valor under the providence of God has brought peace
  and prosperity to all the States. [Applause.]

  It gave me great pleasure in passing through the Southern States
  to see how your work had contributed to their prosperity. No man can
  look upon any of these States through which we campaigned and fought
  without realizing that what seemed to their people a disaster was,
  under God, the opening of a great gate of prosperity and happiness.

  All those fires of industry which I saw through the South were
  lighted at the funeral pyre of slavery. [Cries of "Good! good!" and
  applause.] They were impossible under the conditions that existed
  previously in those States. We are now a homogeneous people. You in
  California, full of pride and satisfaction with the greatness of your
  State, will always set above it the greater glory and the greater
  citizenship which our flag symbolizes. [Cheers.] You went into the
  war for the defence of the Union; you have come out to make your
  contribution to the industries and progress of this age of peace. As
  in our States of the Northwest the winter covering of snow hides and
  warms the vegetation, and with the coming of the spring sun melts and
  sinks into the earth to refresh the root, so this great army was a
  covering and defence, and when the war was ended, turned into rivulets
  of refreshment to all the pursuits of peace. There was nothing greater
  in all the world's story than the assembling of this army except its
  disbandment. It was an army of citizens; and when the war was over the
  soldier was not left at the tavern--he had a fireside toward which
  his steps hastened. He ceased to be a soldier and became a citizen.
  [Cheers.]

  I observe, as I look into your faces, that the youth of the army
  must have settled on the Pacific coast. [Laughter and applause.] You
  are younger men here than we are in the habit of meeting at our Grand
  Army posts in the East. May all prosperity attend you; may you be
  able to show yourselves in civil life, as in the war, the steadfast,
  unfaltering, devoted friends of this flag you are willing to die for.
  [Great cheering.]




PALACE HOTEL BANQUET, MAY 1.


In the evening President Harrison attended a grand banquet given in
his honor by the prominent citizens at the Palace Hotel. Of all the
entertainments extended to the distinguished visitors on their journey
this banquet was beyond question the most notable. Representatives of
the business, professional, political, educational, and society circles
of the city were present in numbers. The brilliant affair was largely
directed by Colonel Andrews, Alfred Bovier, Geo. R. Sanderson, and
Messrs. Le Count, Jackson, and Menzies of the Citizens' Committee.

The President was escorted to the banquet hall by General Barnes and
introduced to the distinguished assembly quite early in the evening.
After the vociferous cheering subsided General Harrison rewarded the
magnificent assemblage with an address that called forth from the press
of the country general commendation, and is only second to his great
speech at Galveston. He said:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen_--When the Queen of Sheba visited the
  court of Solomon and saw its splendors she was compelled to testify
  that the half had not been told her. Undoubtedly the emissaries of
  Solomon's court, who had penetrated to her distant territory, found
  themselves in a like situation to that which attends Californians
  when they travel East--they are afraid to put too much to test
  the credulity of their hearers [laughter and applause], and as a
  gentleman of your State said to me, it has resulted in a prevailing
  indisposition among Californians to tell the truth out of California.
  [Laughter and applause.] Not at all because Californians are
  unfriendly to the truth, but solely out of compassion for their
  hearers they address themselves to the capacity of those who hear
  them. [Laughter.] And taking warning by the fate of the man who told a
  sovereign of the Indies that he had seen water so solid that it could
  be walked upon, they do not carry their best stories away from home.
  [Laughter.]

  It has been, much as I have heard of California, a brilliant
  disillusion to me and to those who have journeyed with me. The half
  had not been told of the productiveness of your valleys, of the
  blossoming orchards, of the gardens laden with flowers. We have seen
  and been entranced. Our pathway has been strewn with flowers. We have
  been surprised, when we were in a region of orchards and roses, to be
  suddenly pulled up at a station and asked to address some remarks to a
  pyramid of pig tin. [Laughter and applause.]

  Products of the mine, rare and exceptional, have been added to the
  products of the field, until now the impression has been made upon my
  mind that if any want should be developed in the arts, possibly if
  any wants should be developed in statesmanship, or any vacancies in
  office [great laughter], we have here a safe reservoir that can be
  drawn upon _ad libitum_. [Laughter]. But, my friends, sweeter than all
  the incense of flowers, richer than all the products of mines, has
  been the gracious, unaffected, hearty kindness with which the people
  of California have everywhere received us. Without division, without
  dissent, a simple yet magnificent and enthusiastic American welcome.
  [Great applause.]

  It is gratifying that it should be so. We may carry into our
  campaigns, to our conventions and congresses, discussions and
  divisions, but how grand it is that we are a people who bow reverently
  to the decision when it is rendered, and who will follow the flag
  always, everywhere, with absolute devotion of heart without asking
  what party may have given the leader in whose hands it is placed.
  [Enthusiastic cheering.]

  I believe that we have come to a new epoch as a Nation. There are
  opening portals before us inviting us to enter--opening portals to
  trade and influence and prestige such as we have never seen before.
  [Great applause.] We will pursue the paths of peace; we are not
  a warlike Nation; all our instincts, all our history is in the
  lines of peace. Only intolerable aggression, only the peril of our
  institutions--of the flag--can thoroughly arouse us. [Great applause.]
  With capability for war on land and on sea unexcelled by any nation in
  the world, we are smitten with the love of peace. [Applause.] We would
  promote the peace of this hemisphere by placing judiciously some large
  guns about the Golden Gate [great and enthusiastic cheering]--simply
  for saluting purposes [laughter and cheers], and yet they should be of
  the best modern type. [Cheers.]

  We should have on the sea some good vessels. We don't need as
  great a navy as some other people, but we do need a sufficient navy
  of first-class ships, simply to make sure that the peace of the
  hemisphere is preserved [cheers]; simply that we may not leave the
  great distant marts and harbors of commerce and our few citizens who
  may be domiciled there to feel lonesome for the sight of the American
  flag. [Cheers.]

  We are making fine progress in the construction of the navy. The
  best English constructors have testified to the completeness and
  perfection of some of our latest ships. It is a source of great
  gratification to me that here in San Francisco the energy, enterprise,
  and courage of some of your citizens have constructed a plant capable
  of building the best modern ships. [Cries of "Good! good!" and cheers.]

  I saw with delight the magnificent launch of one of these new
  vessels. I hope that you may so enlarge your capacities for
  construction that it will not be necessary to send any naval vessel
  around the Horn. We want merchant ships. [Cheers.] I believe we have
  come to a time when we should choose whether we will continue to be
  non-participants in the commerce of the world or will now vigorously,
  with the push and energy which our people have shown in other lines of
  enterprise, claim our share of the world's commerce. [Cheers.]

  I will not enter into the discussion of methods of the Postal bill
  of the last session of Congress, which marks the beginning. Here in
  California, where for so long a time a postal service that did not pay
  its own way was maintained by the Government, where for other years
  the Government has maintained mail lines into your valleys, reaching
  out to every remote community, and paying out yearly a hundred times
  the revenue that was derived, it ought not to be difficult to persuade
  you that our ocean mail should not longer be the only service for
  which we refuse to expend even the revenues derived from it.

  It is my belief that, under the operation of the law to which I have
  referred, we shall be able to stimulate ship-building, to secure some
  new lines of American steamships, and to increase the ports of call of
  all those now established. [Enthusiastic cheering.]

  It will be my effort to do what may be done under the powers lodged
  in me by the law to open and increase trade with the countries of
  Central and South America. I hope it may not be long--I know it will
  not be long if we but unitedly pursue this great scheme--until one can
  take a sail in the bay of San Francisco and see some deep-water ships
  come in bearing our own flag. [Enthusiastic and continued cheering.]

  During our excursion the other day I saw three great vessels come
  in; one carried the Hawaiian and two the English flag. I am a thorough
  believer in the construction of the Nicaragua Canal. You have pleased
  me so much that I would like a shorter water communication between
  my State and yours. [Cheers.] Influences and operations are now
  started that will complete, I am sure, this stately enterprise; but,
  my fellow-citizens and Mr. President, this is the fifth time this day
  that I have talked to gatherings of California friends, and we have so
  much taxed the hospitality of San Francisco in making our arrangements
  to make this city the centre of a whole week's sight-seeing that I do
  not want to add to your other burdens the infliction of longer speech.
  [Cries of "Go on!"] Right royally have you welcomed us with all that
  is rich and prodigal in provision and display. With all graciousness
  and friendliness I leave my heart with you when I go. [Great and
  prolonged cheering.]




SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, MAY 2.


Early Saturday morning, May 2, the President left San Francisco,
accompanied by Mrs. Harrison and Mrs. Dimmick, Secretary Rusk, Marshal
Ransdell, and Major Sanger, to visit the capital city, Sacramento. They
were met at Davisville by a special committee consisting of: Hon. Newton
Booth, Hon. A. P. Catlin, Hon. W. C. Van Fleet, Col. J. B. Wright, Hon.
J. O. Coleman, Maj. Wm. McLaughlin, Col. C. H. Hubbard, Hon. N. Curtis,
Hon. Theo. Reichert, R. B. Harmon, and Hon. W. C. Hendricks.

A presidential salute at 8 o'clock announced the arrival of the Chief
Magistrate, who was welcomed by Hon. W. D. Comstock, Mayor of the city,
at the head of the following distinguished Committee of Reception: Hon.
J. W. Armstrong, Prof. E. C. Atkinson, Hon. Frederick Cox, Edwin F.
Smith, H. M. Larue, P. S. Lawson, W. A. Anderson, Wells Drury, C. K.
McClatchy, Maj. H. Weinstock, A. A. Van Voorhies, A. S. Hopkins, T. W.
Humphrey, Hon. F. R. Dray, Wm. Beckman, R. D. Stephens, W. P. Coleman,
Dr. Wm. H. Baldwin, Allen Towle, Dr. G. L. Simmons, C. T. Wheeler, J.
C. Pierson, W. H. H. Hart, A. Abbott, Chas. McCreary, Rev. Stephenson,
T. M. Lindley, E. W. Roberts, Grove L. Johnson, Frank Miller, Dr. W.
R. Cluness, H. W. Byington, Chris. Green, Clinton L. White, Alonzo
R. Conklin, Wm. Geary, Gen. A. L. Hart, Dr. S. Bishop, L. Tozer, D.
H. McDonald, L. W. Grothan, W. H. Ambrose, J. S. McMahon, Geo. W.
Chesley, W. R. Strong, Rev. A. C. Herrick, T. M. Lindley, H. J. Small,
Felix Tracy, C. A. Luhrs, Philip Scheld, Wm. Land, H. G. May, C. A.
Jenkins, Geo. C. McMulle, Jabez Turner, M. A. Baxter, O. W. Erlewine,
Albert Hart, L. Elkus, B. B. Brown, T. C. Adams, B. U. Steinman, G. W.
Safford, W. D. Perkins, Ed. F. Taylor, A. J. Johnston, E. Greer, L.
Mebus, W. E. Gerber, S. E. Carrington, E. C. Hart, Dr. M. Gardner, Dr.
T. W. Huntington, Chris. Weisel, Joseph E. Werry, W. F. Knox, E. W.
Hale, Dr. G. M. Dixon, W. O. Bowers, Geo. W. Hancock, E. G. Blessing,
A. J. Rhoads, R. S. Carey, E. B. Willis, Jud C. Brusie, T. L. Enright,
V. S. McClatchy, Wm. J. Davis, Dr. J. R. Laine, Geo. M. Mott, Harrison
Bennett, R. M. Clarken, Jerry Paine, J. W. Wilson, John Weil, Gen. J. G.
Martine, H. B. Neilson, Chas. M. Campbell, M. S. Hammer, J. M. Avery,
Dr. H. L. Nichols, W. W. Cuthbert, James I. Felter, R. H. Singleton,
E. M. Luckett, L. L. Lewis, C. S. Houghton, C. A. Yoerk, T. H. Berkey,
P. Herzog, M. J. Dillman, Robert T. Devlin, A. Poppert, J. L. Huntoon,
Capt. Wm. Siddons, Maj. W. A. Gett, C. J. Ellia, F. W. Fratt, Judge H.
O. Beatty, W. A. Curtis, H. A. Guthrie, Thomas Scott, Benj. Wilson,
Chas. Wieger, H. Fisher, C. H. Gilman, W. L. Duden, S. S. Holl, J. Frank
Clark, H. G. Smith, L. Williams, John Gruhler, F. A. Jones, R. J. Van
Voorhies, James Woodburn, Samuel Gerson, M. A. Burke, C. C. Bonte, Lee
Stanley, Perrin Stanton, A. Mazzini, John F. Slater, J. E. Burke, Capt.
J. H. Roberts, Thos. Geddes, S. L. Richards, M. M. Drew, Gen. Geo. B.
Cosbey, J. F. Linthicum, J. N. Larkin, Richard Burr, and Samuel Lavenson.

The march from the depot to the Capitol grounds was one continuous
ovation. The veterans of Warren, Sumner, and Fair Oaks posts, G. A.
R., acted as an escort of honor. The militia was commanded by Gen. T.
W. Sheehan. More than 30,000 people witnessed or participated in the
demonstration. As the President passed Pioneer Hall he halted the column
to receive the greetings of the venerable members of the Sacramento
Society. Governor Markham delivered an eloquent address, reciting
the discovery of gold in California, reviewing the President's tour
through the State, and bidding him "good-by and God-speed." Ex-Governor
Booth and Secretary Rusk also made short speeches. Postmaster-General
Wanamaker was detained at San Francisco, inspecting sites for a new
post-office. His absence was a disappointment to the postal employees,
who sent him a silver tablet, the size of a money-order, engraved with
their compliments, as a memento.

The President's address was as follows:

  _Governor Markham and Fellow-citizens_--Our eyes have rested upon no
  more beautiful or impressive sight since we entered California. This
  fresh, delightful morning, this vast assemblage of contented and happy
  people, this building, dedicated to the uses of civil government--all
  things about us tend to inspire our hearts with pride and with
  gratitude.

  Gratitude to that overruling Providence that turned hither after the
  discovery of this continent the steps of those who had the capacity to
  organize a free representative government.

  Gratitude to that Providence that has increased the feeble colonies
  on an inhospitable coast to these millions of prosperous people, who
  have found another sea and populated its sunny shores with a happy and
  growing people. [Applause.]

  Gratitude to that Providence that led us through civil strife to
  a glory and a perfection of unity as a people that was otherwise
  impossible.

  Gratitude that we have to-day a Union of free States without a slave
  to stand as a reproach to that immortal declaration upon which our
  Government rests. [Cheers.]

  Pride that our people have achieved so much; that, triumphing over
  all the hardships of those early pioneers, who struggled in the face
  of discouragement and difficulties more appalling than those that met
  Columbus when he turned the prows of his little vessels toward an
  unknown shore; that, triumphing over perils of starvation, perils of
  savages, perils of sickness, here on the sunny slope of the Pacific
  they have established civil institutions and set up the banner of the
  imperishable Union. [Cheers.]

  Every Californian who has followed in their footsteps, every man and
  woman who is to-day enjoying the harvest of their endeavors, should
  always lift his hat to the pioneer of '49. [Cheers.]

  We stand here at the political centre of a great State, in this
  building where your lawmakers assemble, chosen by your suffrages
  to execute your will in framing those rules of conduct which shall
  control the life of the citizen. May you always find here patriotic,
  consecrated men to do your work. May they always assemble here with a
  high sense of duty to those brave, intelligent, and honorable people.
  May they catch the great lesson of our Government, that our people
  need only such regulation as shall restrain the ill-disposed and shall
  give the largest liberty to individual enterprise and effort. [Cheers.]

  No man is gifted with speech to describe the beauty and the
  impressiveness of this great occasion. I am awed in this presence.
  I bow reverently to this great assembly of free, intelligent,
  enterprising American sovereigns. [Cheers.]

  I am glad to have this hasty glimpse of this early centre of
  immigration. I am glad to stand at the place where that momentous
  event, the discovery of gold, transpired, and yet, after you have
  washed your sand of gold, after the eager rush for sudden wealth,
  after all this you have come into a heritage in the possession of
  these fields, in those enduring and inexhaustible treasures of your
  soil, which will perpetually sustain a great population.

  In parting, sir [to the Governor], to you as the representative of
  this people I give the most hearty thanks of all who journey with me
  and my own for the early, continuous, kindly, yea, even affectionate
  attention which has followed us in all our footsteps through
  California. [Great cheering.]




BENICIA, CALIFORNIA, MAY 2.


On leaving Sacramento the President made a brief stop at Benicia, where
a large crowd greeted him, including the school children, who bombarded
him with flowers. The welcoming committee was D. M. Hart, President of
the Board of Trustees; A. Dalton, Jr., S. C. Gray, and W. H. Foreman.

In response to calls for a speech the President said:

  _My Friends_--I thank you most sincerely for this pleasant tribute
  which I have received from these children. It is a curious thing,
  perhaps, that among the earliest towns that became familiar to me in
  my younger days was Benicia. In 1857, when the United States sent an
  armed expedition to Utah, and thence across the continent, I happened
  to have an elder and much-beloved brother who was a lieutenant in that
  campaign. He was stationed at Benicia Barracks, and his letters from
  this place have fixed it in my memory, and recalls to me, as I stand
  here this morning, very tender memories of one who has long since gone
  to his rest. I thank you again for this demonstration.




BERKELEY, CALIFORNIA, MAY 2.

_State University._


The President arrived at West Berkeley station at 1 o'clock and was
met by the Berkeley Reception Committee, consisting of C. R. Lord,
J. L. Scotchler, R. Rickard, E. F. Neihauser, Samuel Heywood, C.
Gaines, J. S. Eastman, John Squires, F. B. Cone, Chris. Johnson, John
Finn, George Schmidt, L. Gottshall, A. F. Fonzo, H. W. Taylor, and
C. E. Wulferdingen. A procession was formed, and amid thousands of
enthusiastic onlookers the party was driven to the State University.
At the main entrance the President found the Faculty, the University
Battalion, and about 1,000 other people awaiting his coming. Acting
President Kellogg briefly welcomed the distinguished guest.

The President, standing with uncovered head in the carriage, spoke as
follows:

  It gives me great pleasure even to inspect these grounds
  and the exterior of these buildings devoted to education. Our
  educational institutions, beginning with the primary common schools
  and culminating in the great universities of the land, are the
  instrumentalities by which the future citizens of this country are
  to be trained in the principles of morality and in the intellectual
  culture which will fit them to maintain, develop, and perpetuate what
  their fathers have begun.

  I am glad to receive your welcome, and only regret that it is
  impossible for me to make a closer observation of your work. I unite
  with you in mourning the loss which has come to you in the death of
  Professor Le Conte. I wish for the institution and for those who are
  called here to train the young the guidance and blessing of God in all
  their endeavors.


_Institute of the Dumb and Blind._

Leaving the University the President was rapidly driven through a
beautiful residence district and entered the grounds of the California
Institute of the Deaf, Dumb and Blind. Before the great edifice stood
the teachers: G. B. Goodall, T. D'Estrella, T. Grady, F. O'Donnell,
Henry Frank, Douglas Kieth, C. T. Wilkinson, N. F. Whipple, Mary Dutch,
Laura Nourse, Elizabeth Moffitt, Rose Sedgwick, Otto Fleissner, and
Charles S. Perry. Assembled on the green were more than 200 afflicted
little ones. The blind welcomed the President with their sympathetic
voices, the dumb looked upon him and smiled, while the deaf waved their
little hands with joy. Superintendent Wilkinson in an address warmly
thanked the party for their visit.

The President, responding, said:

  It gives me great pleasure to stop for a moment at one of these
  institutions so characteristic of our Christian civilization. In
  the barbarous ages of the world the afflicted were regarded by
  superstition unhelpful, or treated with cruel neglect; but in this
  better day the States are everywhere making magnificent provision for
  the comfort and education of the blind and deaf and dumb.

  Where one avenue to the mind has been closed science is opening
  another. The eye does the work of the ear, the finger the work of
  the tongue for the dumb, and touch becomes sight to the blind. I am
  sure that gladness has come to all these young hearts through the
  benevolent, careful, and affectionate instruction they are receiving
  here. I thank you, and wish all of you the utmost happiness through
  life.




OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, MAY 2.


Leaving the Asylum for the Blind the presidential party was driven
rapidly to Oakland, passing through the suburban town of Temescal, where
a large crowd, including several hundred school children, greeted the
distinguished visitors. The President was accompanied by Mayor Melvin
Chapman and the following members of the Oakland Reception Committee:
Ex-Mayor John R. Glascock, Hon. Geo. E. Whitney, Senator W. E. Dargie,
J. G. McCall, A. C. Donnell, T. C. Coogan, John P. Irish, Hon. E. S.
Denison, C. D. Pierce, J. W. McClymonds, W. D. English, H. M. Sanborn,
M. J. Keller, J. F. Evans, A. W. Bishop, W. W. Foote, Robert McKillican,
Charles G. Yale, G. W. McNear, W. R. Thomas, C. B. Evans, and Maj. F. R.
O'Brien.

As the presidential carriage turned into Jackson Street at half-past
1 o'clock nearly 10,000 school children welcomed the Chief Magistrate
with a fusillade of bouquets. The crowd was so great the President was
unable to reach the reviewing stand, where Mr. Wanamaker awaited him.
Making the best of the situation, Mayor Chapman arose in the carriage
and formally welcomed the President on behalf of the citizens.

President Harrison, speaking from the same carriage, responded as
follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I am glad to meet you all, and
  I assure you I appreciate this magnificent demonstration. I must
  congratulate you upon your fine institutions, and particularly your
  streets, which, I believe, are the best in the country. I thank you
  for this reception most heartily. I regret that your enthusiasm and
  the vast size of this assembly has somewhat disconcerted the programme
  marked out, but I can speak as well from here as from the stand, which
  seems to be inaccessible. I return my sincere thanks for your welcome
  and express the interest and gratification I have felt this morning
  in riding through some of the streets of your beautiful city. I thank
  you most sincerely for your friendliness and bid you good-by. [Great
  cheering.]




SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, MAY 2.

_Union League Reception._


Immediately on returning from his arduous trip to Sacramento and Oakland
the President attended a reception in his honor tendered by members of
the Union League at their club-house. The affair was one of the most
notable of any in which the presidential guests participated during
their visit to the golden West, and was conducted under the direction
of the following committee: A. E. Castle, Joseph S. Spear, Jr., F. S.
Chadbourne, W. H. Chamberlain, T. H. Minor, J. H. Hegler, Frank J.
French, J. T. Giesting, William Macdonald, J. S. Mumaugh, R. D. Laidlaw,
S. K. Thornton, W. D. Sanborn, Joseph Simonson, J. M. Litchfield, and L.
H. Clement.

The President entered upon the arm of Wendell Easton, President of the
Union League Club, followed by the first lady of the land, escorted by
Governor Markham. The Reception Committee comprised: Senator Stanford,
General Dimond, M. H. de Young, Judge Estee, I. C. Stump, W. C. Van
Fleet, C. J. Bandmann, W. E. Dargie, N. P. Chipman, Lewis Gerstle, F. A.
Vail, Col. W. R. Shafter, Mrs. Leland Stanford, Mrs. R. D. Laidlaw, Mrs.
W. H. Chamberlain, Mrs. Joseph S. Spear, Jr., Mrs. W. W. Morrow, Mrs. F.
L. Castle, Mrs. M. H. de Young, Mrs. N. P. Chipman, Mrs. C. J. Bandmann,
Miss Emma Spreckels, Miss Thornton, Mrs. Wendell Easton, Mrs. S. W.
Backus, Mrs. G. H. Sanderson, Mrs. W. E. Dargie, Miss Stump, Miss Reed,
and others prominent in society.

After the long and brilliant column had passed before the presidential
line Samuel M. Shortridge stepped before the President and in an
eloquent address in behalf of the Union League Club presented him with a
fac-simile, in gold, of the invitation issued to the reception.

General Harrison, in accepting the beautiful souvenir, said:

  California is full of ambuscades, not of a hostile sort, but with
  all embarrassments that attend surprise. In a hasty drive this
  afternoon, when I thought I was to visit Oakland, I was suddenly
  drawn up in front of a college and asked to make an address, and in a
  moment afterward before an asylum for the deaf, dumb, and blind, the
  character of which I did not know until the carriage stopped in front
  of it. All this taxes the ingenuity as your kindness moves the heart
  of one who is making a hurried journey through California. I do not
  need such souvenirs as this to keep fresh in my heart this visit to
  your State. It will be pleasant, however, to show to others who have
  not participated in this enjoyment the record of a trip that has been
  very eventful and one of perpetual sunshine and happiness. I do not
  think I could have endured the labor and toil of travel unless I had
  been borne up by the inspiriting and hearty good-will of your people.
  I do not know what collapse is in store for me when it is withdrawn.
  I fear I shall need a vigorous tonic to keep up to the high level of
  enjoyment and inspiration which your kind treatment has given me. I
  thank you for this pleasant social enjoyment and this souvenir of it.
  [Applause.]




SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA, MAY 3.

_Farewell._


Sunday evening the President and his party, after passing a restful
day at the Palace Hotel, quietly took their leave of San Francisco and
repaired to their palatial train. Mayor Sanderson and his secretary,
Mr. Steppacher, Col. Charles F. Crocker and Colonel Andrews, of the
Reception Committee, escorted the party to their train. The President
personally thanked these gentlemen for their kind and unremitting
attentions during their visit. Shortly before the train resumed its
long journey, at a quarter past midnight, the President gave out the
following card of thanks to the people of California:

  I desire, for myself and for the ladies of our party, to give
  an expression of our thanks for many individual acts of courtesy,
  which, but for the pressure upon our time, would have been specially
  acknowledged. Friends who have been so kind will not, I am sure,
  impute to us any lack of appreciation or intended neglect. The very
  excess of their kindness has made any adequate, and much more, any
  particular, return impossible. You will all believe that there has
  been no purposed neglect of any locality or individual. We leave you
  with all good wishes for the State of California and all her people.

                                                  BENJ. HARRISON.




RED BLUFF, CALIFORNIA, MAY 4.


Monday morning, May 4, found the presidential train rolling through
Northern California. A short stop was made at Tehama, where the
President shook hands with the crowd in the rain. Red Bluff, the county
seat of Tehama County, was reached at 8:30 o'clock, and several thousand
people greeted the President, among them D. D. Dodson and Capt. J. T.
Matlock, the latter an old army friend who served in General Harrison's
regiment.

On being presented to the assemblage by his former comrade the President
spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--It is very pleasant to meet here an old comrade of
  the Seventieth Indiana Volunteers. Your fellow citizen, Captain
  Matlock, who has spoken for you, commanded one of the companies of my
  regiment, and is, therefore, a very old and very dear friend. Once
  before in California I had a like surprise. The other day a glee club
  began to sing a song that was familiar to me, and I said to those
  standing about me. "Why, that song was written by a lieutenant in my
  old regiment, and I have not heard it since the war." Presently the
  leader of the glee club turned his face toward me and I found he was
  the identical lieutenant and the composer of the song, singing it
  for my benefit. All along I have met old Indiana acquaintances, and
  I am glad to see them, whether they were of my old command or from
  other regiments of the great war. They all seem to be prosperous and
  happy. Captain Matlock was about the same size during the war that he
  is now. I very well remember, according to his own account, that at
  Resaca he undertook to make a breastwork of some "down timber," but he
  found, after looking about, that it was insufficient cover, and took a
  standing tree. [Laughter.]

  Seriously, my friends, you have a most beautiful State, capable of
  promoting the comfort of your citizens in a very high degree, and
  although already occupying a high place in the galaxy of States, it
  will, I am sure, take a much higher one. It is pleasant to see how the
  American spirit prevails among all your people, the love for the flag
  and the Constitution, those settled and permanent things that live
  whether men go or come. They came to us from our fathers and will pass
  down to our children. You are blessed with a genial climate and a most
  productive soil. I see you have in this northern part of California
  what I have seen elsewhere--a well-ordered community, with churches
  and school-houses, which indicates that you are not giving all your
  thoughts to material things, but thinking of those things that qualify
  the soul for the hereafter. We have been treated to another surprise
  this morning in the first shower we have seen in California. I
  congratulate you that it rains here. May all blessings fall upon you,
  like the gentle rain. [Cheers.]




REDDING, CALIFORNIA, MAY 4.


At Redding, Shasta County, the distinguished travellers were welcomed
by several hundred school children, marshalled by William Jackson.
Mayor Brigman and the members of the City Council, with W. P. England,
L. H. Alexander, B. F. Roberts, Mrs. E. A. Reid, and other prominent
residents, participated in the reception. Judge C. C. Bush, through
whose exertions the visit was secured, delivered an address of welcome
and introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is very pleasant, as we near the northern
  line of California, after having traversed the valleys of the
  south, and are soon to leave the State in which we have had so much
  pleasurable intercourse with its people, to see here, as I have seen
  elsewhere, multitudes of contented, prosperous, and happy people. I
  am assured you are here a homogeneous people, all Americans, all by
  birth or by free choice lovers of one flag and one Constitution. It
  seems to me as I look into the faces of these California audiences
  that life must be easier here than it is in the old States. I see
  absolutely no evidences of want. Every one seems to be well nourished.
  Your appearance gives evidence that the family board is well supplied,
  and from the gladness on your faces it is evident that in your social
  relations everything is quiet, orderly, and hopeful. I thank you
  for your friendly demonstrations. I wish it were possible for me to
  do more in exchange for all your great kindness than simply to say
  thank you; but I do profoundly thank you, and shall carry away from
  your State the very happiest impressions and very pleasant memories.
  [Cheers.]




SISSON, CALIFORNIA, MAY 4.


A brief stop was made at Dunsmuir, where the President shook hands with
and thanked the people for their greeting, remarking that he was glad
to find that even on the hilltops of California they found something
profitable to do.

Sisson, at the foot of Mount Shasta, was reached at 3 o'clock; it
was the last stopping-point in California, and the entire population
turned out in honor of the visitors. The Committee of Reception was Asa
Persons, Hugh B. Andrews, Oliver E. Moors, T. J. Sullivan, Frank B.
Moors, and the veterans of Mount Shasta Post, G. A. R.

President Harrison, addressing the assemblage, said:

  _My Friends_--I have been talking now over a trip of 6,000 miles and
  feel pretty well talked out; but I can always say, as I say to you
  now, that it is ever a very great pleasure to me to see these kindly
  faces turned toward me. We have received in South California, in their
  orange groves, a very hearty welcome, and it is very pleasant to come
  now to this fine scenery among these snow-capped mountains. I have no
  doubt that you find here in this high altitude an inspiration for all
  good things. I thank you again for your cordial greeting.




ASHLAND, OREGON, MAY 4.


The first stop in Oregon was at Ashland, at 8 P.M., in a drizzling rain.
An escort committee from the Oregon Legislature and the Portland Board
of Trade, headed by Hon. Joseph Simon, President of the Senate, met the
Chief Executive at this point. The local Reception Committee comprised
Mayor G. M. Grainger, Hon. J. M. McCall, D. R. Mills, Dr. J. Hall, and
Col. J. T. Bowditch, Judge Advocate General O. N. G.

Responding to the greeting of the Legislative Committee the President
said:

  _Mr. Simon and Gentlemen of the Committee_--I esteem it an honor
  that the Legislature of the State of Oregon has taken this notice of
  my visit, and I receive with pleasure this welcome you have extended
  to me. I am very glad to greet you, and it will give me pleasure to
  see you further before leaving the State.

The President then appeared on the platform, and was presented to the
citizens by the Mayor, and spoke briefly, saying:

  _My Friends_--This cordial welcome, under the infelicitous
  circumstances, is very gratifying to us as we enter the great State of
  Oregon. In the State of California we had sunshine, and it was perhaps
  to be expected that the favorable weather conditions should draw about
  our platform a large concourse of people, but you have evidenced your
  interest in the Government and the flag and your friendly interest
  in us by turning out on this inclement night to bid us welcome to
  your State. I thank you most sincerely, and wish for you and yours
  all good, and for your State a continued career of development and
  prosperity.




MEDFORD, OREGON, MAY 4.


The President's visit to Medford at 10 P.M. was acknowledged by a
general illumination. The veterans of Chester A. Arthur Post, G. A. R.,
J. R. Erford, Commander, and J. H. Faris, Adjutant, were out _en masse_.
Mayor G. W. Howard made a brief address and introduced the President,
who said:

  _Comrades and Fellow-citizens_--It gives me great pleasure to see
  you to-night, especially these old comrades, to whom I am glad to
  give a comrade's greeting. I would have you think of me as a comrade.
  I recall those army scenes which are fresh in your minds as well as
  mine, the scenes of privation, suffering, and battle, and I am glad to
  see that the old flag you took to the field and brought home in honor
  is still held in honor among you. It is a beautiful emblem of a great
  Government. We ought to teach our children to love it and to regard
  it as a sacred thing, a thing for which men have died and for which
  men will die. It symbolizes the government of the States under one
  Constitution, for while you are all Oregonians as I am an Indianian,
  and each has his pride in State institutions and all that properly
  pertains to our State Government, we have a larger and greater pride
  in the fact that we are citizens of a Nation, of a Union of States,
  having a common Constitution. [Cheers.]

  It is this flag that represents us on the sea and in foreign
  countries, it is under this flag that our navies sail and our armies
  march. I thank you for this cordial greeting. I hope you have found
  in this State comfortable homes, and that in the years that remain to
  you God will follow you with those blessings which your courage and
  patriotism and sacrifices have so well merited. [Cheers.]




ALBANY, OREGON, MAY 5.


The presidential party arrived at the thriving city of Albany, in the
Willamette Valley, at 8 o'clock on the morning of the 5th, and were
received by 5,000 people. Mayor J. L. Cowan headed the Committee of
Reception, consisting of J. W. Cusick, Judge L. Flinn, W. C. Tweedale,
J. R. Whitney, L. E. Blain, M. Sternberg, G. F. Simpson, Dr. D. M.
Jones, A. Hackleman, and Thomas Monteith. McPherson Post, G. A. R.,
J. F. Whiting, Commander, and Company F, O. N. G., Capt. Geo. E.
Chamberlain, together with 200 students from the State Agricultural
College at Corvallis, under Prof. J. D. Letcher, participated in the
reception. Mayor Cowan delivered the address of welcome.

President Harrison, in response, said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It gives me great pleasure to see you, and
  to have the testimony of your presence here this wet morning to the
  interest you take in this little party of strangers who are pausing
  only for a moment with you. We do not need any assurance, as we
  look over an American audience like this, that upon some things,
  at least, we are of one mind. One of these things is that we have a
  Union indissoluble; that we have a flag we all honor, and that shall
  suffer no dishonor from any quarter. While I regret the inclemency of
  the morning, I have been thinking that after all there was a sort of
  instructive moral force in the uncertainty of the weather, which our
  friends in Southern California do not enjoy. How can a boy or young
  woman be well trained in self-denial and resignation who does not
  know what it is to have a picnic or picnic dress spoiled by a shower,
  or some fishing excursion by a storm? I thank you for this welcome.
  [Cheers.]




SALEM, OREGON, MAY 5.


Salem, the capital of Oregon, was reached at 9 A.M. The local militia
and several thousand citizens assembled to greet the President,
including Governor Pennoyer, Mayor P. H. D'Arcy, Charles Morris, E.
M. Waite, A. N. Gilbert, William Brown, and other prominent citizens;
also, the Legislative Reception Committee, headed by Hon. Joseph Simon,
President of the Senate, and Hon. T. T. Geer, Speaker of the House. _En
route_ from the depot to the State House thousands of people lined the
sidewalks and several hundred school children, bearing flags, waved
a cordial greeting. Arriving at the Assembly Chamber, Mayor D'Arcy
presided and welcomed the President in the name of the city; he was
followed by Governor Pennoyer, who extended "a generous, heartfelt
welcome on behalf of the people of Oregon."

With marked earnestness President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Governor Pennoyer, Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--It is very
  pleasant to be assured by these kindly words which have been spoken
  by the Governor of this State and by the chief officer of this
  municipality that we are welcome to the State of Oregon and to the
  city of Salem. I find here, as I found elsewhere, that these cordial
  words of welcome are repeated with increased emphasis by the kindly
  faces of those who assemble to greet us. I am glad that here as
  elsewhere we look into the faces of happy, prosperous, contented,
  liberty-loving, patriotic American citizens. Our birthright, the
  wise anticipation of those who framed our Government, our national
  and constitutional organization, which has repeated itself in all
  the States of the Union, this wholesome and just division of power
  between the three great independent, co-ordinate branches of the
  Government--the executive, the legislative, and the judicial--has
  already demonstrated that what seems to the nations of Europe to be
  a complicated and jangling system produces in fact the most perfect
  harmony, and the most complete and satisfactory organization for
  social order and for national strength.

  We stand here to-day in one of these halls set apart to the
  law-making body of your State. Those who assemble here are chosen by
  your suffrages. They come here as representatives to enact into laws
  those views of public questions which have met the sanction of the
  majority of your people, expressed in an orderly and honest way at
  the ballot-box. I hope it may be always found to be true of Oregon
  that your legislative body is a representative body; that coming
  from the people, its service is consecrated to the people, and the
  purpose of its creation is attained by giving to the well-ordered
  and well-disposed the largest liberty, by curbing, by wholesome
  laws, the ill-disposed and the lawless, and providing by economical
  methods for the public needs. The judiciary, that comes next in our
  system, to interpret and apply the public statutes, has been in our
  country a safe refuge for all who are oppressed. It is greatly to our
  credit as a Nation that with rare exceptions those who have worn the
  judicial ermine in the highest tribunals of the country, and notably
  in the Supreme Court of the United States, have continued to retain
  the confidence of the people of the whole country. The duty of the
  Executive is to administer the law; the military power is lodged with
  him under constitutional limitations. He does not frame statutes,
  though in most States, and under our national Government, a veto
  power is lodged in him with a view to secure reconsideration of any
  particular measure.

  But a public executive officer has one plain duty: it is to enforce
  the law with kindness and forbearance, but with promptness and
  inexorable decision. He may not choose what laws he will enforce any
  more than the citizen may choose what laws he will obey. We have here
  but one king: it is the law, passed by those constitutional methods
  which are necessary to make it binding upon the people, and to that
  king all men must bow. It is my great pleasure to find so generally
  everywhere a disposition to obey the law. I have but one message for
  the North and for the South, for the East and the West, as I journey
  through this land. It is to hold up the law, and to say everywhere
  that every man owes allegiance to it, and that all law-breakers
  must be left to the deliberate and safe judgment of an established
  tribunal. You are justly proud of your great State. Its capabilities
  are enormous; its adaptation to comfortable life is peculiar and fine.
  The years will bring you increased population and increased wealth.
  I hope they will bring with it, marching in this stately progress of
  material things, those finer things--piety, pure homes, and orderly
  communities. But above all this State pride, over all our rejoicings
  in the advantages which are about us in our respective States, we look
  with greater pride to that great arch of government that unites these
  States and makes of them all one great Union. But, my fellow-citizens,
  the difficulties that I see interposed between us and the train which
  is scheduled to depart very soon warn me to bring these remarks
  to a speedy close. I beg again, most profoundly, to thank you for
  this evidence of your respect, this evidence of your love for the
  institutions of our common country. [Cheers.]




CHEMAWA, OREGON, MAY 5.


At Chemawa, the seat of an Indian training-school, the President
reviewed the pupils and, in response to calls for a speech, addressed
them as follows:

  _My Young Friends_--It gives me great pleasure to stop for a moment
  to see these evidences of the good work the Government is doing for
  you and the good work you are doing for yourselves. All the purposes
  of the Government toward you and your people are benevolent and
  friendly. It is our wish that you may become such people as your
  neighbors are--industrious, kindly, peaceful, and self-respecting.
  Everything that I can do to promote this end will be gladly done.
  I hope your instructors and all those who are brought close to you
  will in every way express and carry out the benevolent and kindly
  intentions of the Government.




OREGON CITY, OREGON, MAY 5.


A cordial greeting was accorded the President at Oregon City by the
pioneers and army veterans. The Committee of Reception was Hon. J. T.
Apperson, Hon. H. E. Cross, Hon. T. W. Sullivan, and T. Rands. From
beneath a triumphal floral arch near the station the Mayor delivered a
welcoming address, closing with three cheers.

The President, in response, said:

  _Fellow-citizens_--This is a very pleasant morning reception. The
  heartiness and genuineness of your greeting is unmistakable, and I
  beg to assure you that we most heartily appreciate and return your
  kindly thoughts. You have here a most important State, one of those
  bordering on the Pacific, completing the autonomy of our great
  country, and giving us a seaboard on the Pacific as well as upon the
  Atlantic which was essential to our completeness and separateness as
  a people. The interesting story of the early settlement of Oregon, of
  the international contest which for some time threatened international
  war, is fresh in the minds of these pioneers, and I am sure is taught
  to these children of your public schools. The work of those who set up
  the American flag here, and who secured to us this fertile region, is
  worthy of mention and of honorable commemoration by this generation,
  which is entering into their labors. Your State has added another
  to that succession of kindly greetings which began when we left the
  national capital. We have come out of the land of irrigation and
  roses into this land where the Lord takes care of the crops; and this
  dependence upon the seasons is not without its instructive and moral
  influences. Nature seems to have made a fresh, white toilet for us as
  we have come down the banks of this beautiful river. To the pioneers,
  to those who have entered in with less labor to the inheritance left
  to them, to these children and to these comrades of the Grand Army, I
  give my most hearty greeting.




PORTLAND, OREGON, MAY 5.


Tuesday, at noon, found the President and his party at Portland, where
they received an enthusiastic greeting. Ten thousand people were
present, notwithstanding the rainy weather. The President was welcomed
at the station by Mayor Van B. De Lashmutt and wife, Chief-Justice R.
S. Strahan, Supreme Judges W. P. Lord and R. S. Bean, Federal Judge M.
P. Deady, Hon. Joseph Simon, President of the Senate; Hon. T. T. Geer,
Speaker of the House; ex-Atty.-Gen. Geo. H. Williams, Hon. T. F. Osborn,
President Chamber of Commerce; Hon. E. B. McElroy, Gen. O. Summers, Gen.
Wm. Kapus, Hon. M. C. George, Hon. Henry Failing, Hon. C. A. Dolph, Hon.
P. L. Willis, Hon. F. V. Drake, Hon. G. L. Story, Hon. J. C. Moreland,
Hon. J. C. Fullerton, Hon. H. B. Miller, Philip Metschan, and Mrs. Rosa
F. Burrell; also W. F. Matlock, J. H. McClung, and S. B. Eakin, Jr., of
Eugene City.

The parade was a brilliant affair. The veterans of the several G. A.
R. posts acted as the guard of honor. The great column was directed by
Col. T. M. Anderson, U. S. A., aided by O. F. Paxton, Chief of Staff;
C. M. Idleman, D. S. Tuthill, Dr. Henry E. Jones, J. G. Woodworth, R.
W. Mitchell, F. K. Arnold, L. A. Lewis, E. C. Michenor, C. R. Holcomb,
Charles E. Dodd, J. C. Courtney, J. A. Sladden, John Gwilt, G. A.
Harding, Gen. C. S. Wright, Gen. C. P. Holloway, Col. R. S. Greenleaf,
Col. D. H. Turner, N. S. Pierce, G. E. Caukin, A. E. Borthwick, Col. H.
H. Northup, Col. R. T. Chamberlain, G. H. Durham, H. C. Allen, E. A.
Weed, M. J. Morse, Geo. C. Sears, F. R. Neal, Dr. W. H. Saylor, Capt. J.
E. Lombard, C. E. Dubois, H. P. Wilson, and M. G. Steffen.

Conspicuous in the procession were the following staff officers of the
Department of the Columbia: Maj. C. A. Wikoff, Maj. W. H. Nash, Maj.
J. C. Muhlenberg, Maj. J. G. C. Lee, and Captains C. McClure and C.
H. Ingalls; also Hon. R. P. Earhart, Geo. A. Steel, F. P. Mays, E. T.
Hatch, J. T. Stewart, Mayor of East Portland; D. M. McLauchlin, Mayor of
Albina; A. M. Crawford, of Roseburg, and the French, Russian, and Danish
vice-consuls.

In the evening five companies of the First Regiment, O. N. G., commanded
by Col. Charles F. Beebe, escorted the President, Secretary Rusk, and
Postmaster-General Wanamaker to the Exposition Building, where an
audience of 15,000 greeted them. Mayor De Lashmutt delivered an eloquent
address of welcome.

President Harrison was tendered an ovation as he arose to respond. He
said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--No more brilliant or inspiring
  scene than this has been presented to our eyes in this wonderful
  series of receptions which have been extended to us on our journey.
  You have been filled with regret to-day that your weeping skies did
  not present to us the fair spectacle which you had hoped; and yet this
  very discouragement has but added to the glory of this magnificent
  reception. [Cheers.] To stand in the bright sunshine of a genial day
  and to wave a welcome is not so strong a proof of the affectionate
  interest of a people as you have given to-day standing in this
  down-pouring rain [Cheers.] In the presence of a multitude like this,
  in a scene made brilliant by these decorations, I stand inadequate to
  any suitable expression of the gratitude that fills my heart. [Cheers.]

  I was quite inclined to stand by the Superintendent of the Census
  in the count which he made of the States; but I am afraid if I had
  witnessed this scene, pending your application for a recount, that it
  would have been granted. [Laughter and great cheering.] I am sorry
  that it could not have been made as the people turned out to give us
  this welcome; I am sure no one would have been missed. [Laughter and
  cheers.]

  This State is interesting in its history. The establishment of the
  authority of the United States over this region was an important event
  in our national history. The possession of the Columbia and of Puget
  Sound was essential to the completeness and the roundness of our
  empire. We have here in this belt of States, reaching from the Gulf
  of California to the Straits of Fuca, a magnificent possession which
  we could not have dispensed with at all. [Cheers.] The remoteness
  of Oregon from the older settled States, the peril and privation
  which attended the steps of the pioneer as he came hither, delayed
  the development of this great country. You are now but beginning to
  realize the advantage of closer and easier communications. You are but
  now beginning to receive from an impartial and beneficent Government
  that attention which you well deserve. [Cheers.]

  That this river of yours should be made safe and deep, so that
  waiting commerce may come without obstruction to your wharf, is to be
  desired. [Cheers.] It should receive those appropriations which are
  necessary to make the work accomplish the purpose in view. [Cheers.] I
  believe that you may anticipate a largely increased commerce. Looking
  out as you do toward the regions across the Pacific, it would be but
  natural that this important centre should draw from them and exchange
  with them a great and increasing commerce. [Cheers.] I am in entire
  sympathy with the suggestion of the Mayor that it is important that
  this commerce should be carried in American ships. [Cheers.] A few
  days ago, when I sailed in the harbor of San Francisco, I saw three
  great deep water ships come into that port. One carried the flag of
  Hawaii and two the English flag. None bore at the masthead the Stars
  and Stripes. I believe it is the duty of the national Government
  to take such steps as will restore the American merchant marine.
  [Cheers.] Why shall we not have our share in the great commerce of
  the world? I cannot but believe--and such inspiring presences as this
  but kindle and confirm my belief--that we are come to a time when
  this Nation should look to the future and step forward bravely and
  courageously in new lines of enterprise. [Cheers.]

  The Nicaragua Canal should be completed. [Cheers.] Our harbors
  should have adequate defence. [Cheers.] We should have upon the sea a
  navy of first-class ships. [Cheers.] We are here in the most kindly
  relations to these South American and Central American countries. We
  have been content that Europe should do the commerce of these nations.
  We have not availed ourselves of the advantages of neighborhood
  and of friendly kindred republican institutions to develop our
  commerce with those people. We have, fortunately, as a result of the
  great conference of American nations, set on foot measures that I
  confidently hope will bring to us speedily our just share of this
  great commerce. [Cheers.]

  I am glad to know that we are here to-night as American citizens,
  lovers of the one flag and the one Constitution. [Enthusiastic
  cheering.] Proud of Oregon! Yes, you may well be proud of Oregon.
  But, my countrymen, above all, crowning all, greater than all, is our
  American citizenship. [Great cheering.] What would one of these States
  be without the other? What is it that gives us prestige abroad and
  power at home? It is that we have formed a government of the people,
  that we have one flag and speak with one voice to all the nations
  of the earth. [Enthusiastic cheering.] I hope that narrow sentiment
  that regards the authority of the United States or its officers as
  alien or strange has once and forever been extinguished in this land
  of ours. [Great cheering.] My countrymen, I am profoundly grateful
  for this magnificent demonstration. I accept it as a tribute to your
  institutions and to your country. No man is worthy of it; he can
  only return for it a fresh consecration of himself to the duties of
  public office and private citizenship. [Great cheering.] Again I
  assure you that you have given us to-day what is to my mind, under the
  conditions, taking into account the population of your city, the most
  splendid demonstration we have seen on the whole journey. [Prolonged
  and enthusiastic cheering.]

At the conclusion of the President's address the great assemblage
began calling for Postmaster-General Wanamaker. After a few moments'
hesitation the distinguished Philadelphian came forward and was the
recipient of an ovation. He said:

  _Fellow-countrymen_--I am proud to be present at this magnificent
  demonstration. I am especially pleased at the address the President
  has delivered. Instead of having it printed for Congress he has
  reserved it for the people of Oregon, and personally brought you his
  message. [Cheers.] What you have done to-day has certainly touched
  his heart; and no man would be human who did not feel moved at this
  wonderful welcome that you have prepared for your President. I think
  you had him in mind all the time, and wanted to show that your loyalty
  and affection would wash. [Laughter and cheers.]

  I am proud to be an American citizen, and to see how the people
  rally round the flag and the chief standard-bearer, the President of
  the United States. [Cheers.] From the day he started from home his
  pathway has been strewn with garlands, and many times our way has lain
  through a path knee-deep with flowers. They have been scattered all
  the way from Virginia to Oregon; but above all is the hearty, loving,
  loyal welcome that has been extended to us at every stop we have made.
  On the boundary of your State, at the little town of Salem [laughter],
  I think, a welcome was spoken most beautifully and heartily by your
  Governor. [Tremendous cheering.] But you have about 60,000 majority
  over Salem. [Cheers.]

  How can any one thank you for it except to go back to Washington and
  do the very best in his power for your good and the good of the whole
  people? Some of us Eastern people are doing now what Columbus did 400
  years ago--we are discovering America. [Cheers.] If what you have done
  for us here to-night and what you have done to-day is a true index to
  your energy and determination, what is there you will not grasp and do
  when you get at it? [Cheers.] I am sure you will find one opportunity
  in aiding in the postal telegraph. We are going to have penny postage
  all the country over. [Cheers.] But before that time comes let us go
  out into the new States as the villages and hamlets build up and let
  us give them the mail with the freest intercourse and the fullest
  facility. I will now make way for the next man, for the largest
  Secretary of all is still to come. [Cheers and laughter.]

Secretary Rusk also received a hearty welcome. His remarks about the
Weather Bureau had a peculiar zest because of the presence of Gen. A. W.
Greely, chief signal officer. He said:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--It is with great pleasure that I meet you
  here to-night. I would not have a heart if I did not say that I have
  been touched by this demonstration and the demonstration on your
  streets to-day. [Cheers.] I account for this in a different way from
  those who have preceded me. I saw on your streets to-day more ladies
  than I saw in any city which we have visited since we left Washington.
  And the beautiful children! While we have had more flowers in other
  States, we have not met more beautiful women and lovely children. I
  tell you, in order to raise anything sweetly and beautifully you must
  have rain. [Cheers.] Congress has passed a law providing that the
  Weather Bureau be turned over to me July 1, and if I can control the
  weather and another President comes here I will see that you have a
  flood. [Cheers and laughter.] I will endeavor, however, after July 1
  to give you thirteen months' rain every year. I have been touched to
  the heart in many ways since I came to your beautiful city. I have
  met friends who were my boyhood's friends away back in Wisconsin, and
  comrades who served with me in battle and in camp. [Cheers.] I would
  fail to do my duty if I did not say that I am glad to see you all.
  God bless them and may the future deal kindly with you all. [Great
  cheering.]




CENTRALIA, WASHINGTON, MAY 6.


Early on the morning of the 6th the presidential train crossed the
State line and entered the new State of Washington, stopping a moment
at Chehalis, and reaching Centralia at 7 o'clock. Here the President
was received with a national salute, and notwithstanding the rain
several thousand people were present. Mayor D. B. Rees and the following
prominent residents welcomed the Chief Magistrate: J. H. Corwin, H. J.
Miller, W. H. Bachtall, H. L. Meade, Geo. Miller, E. R. Butherworth,
Charles Johnson, Henry Shield, N. B. Kelsey, A. J. Wright, and Geo. H.
Ellsbury.

The President said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is very kind of you to turn out so early
  in the morning. I can count among my pleasantest experiences in the
  Northwest this very early rising. I am a good deal of a Daniel Webster
  as to early risings. [Laughter.] It gives me great pleasure to notice
  the evidence of increased population as contrasted with what I saw
  six years ago as I passed through this country. I was so unfortunate
  then as to find it enveloped in smoke, so that the mountain tops were
  invisible. I am afraid we are to have this experience repeated on this
  visit on account of the fog. I suppose this is because the beauties
  of your country are so great that they have to be shaded to the eyes
  of a stranger. Seriously, however, you have a great commonwealth.
  I do not doubt that your future is to be one of great development
  and great increase in population, and that you are to found here a
  very contented, prosperous, and happy people. Fortunately you have a
  capacity for great agricultural development after you have cleared
  away the forests; and that, after all, is the permanent foundation
  of every American city. It is well enough to have trees on the land
  and mines in the earth; but trees will be cut down and mines be dug
  out, and the only thing that lasts is good soil in the hands of good
  husbandmen. I thank you most sincerely. [Cheers.]




TACOMA, WASHINGTON, MAY 6.


Ten thousand cheers greeted the arrival of the President at Tacoma
Wednesday morning. Gov. Elisha P. Ferry, Mayor Geo. B. Kandle, and
Judge Wm. H. Calkins, at the head of the following Committee of
Reception, met the party: Gen. John W. Sprague, Samuel Collyer, Colonel
Garretson, Judge Allyn, Hon. M. Hill, Mrs. Frank Allyn, W. D. Tyler,
Mrs. Derrickson, Thomas Carroll, Dr. Munson, Judge John Beverly, Judge
Applegate, H. C. Wallace, Senator John B. Allen and wife, Mrs. Galusha
Parsons, Charles Hale, George Reed, Charles Catlin, S. C. Slaughter,
Thomas Sloane, L. E. Post, Nelson Bennett, F. F. Jacobs, I. W. Anderson,
A. C. Mason, C. W. Griggs, G. W. Holmes, E. M. Hunt, John D. Hills, L.
R. Manning, Hon. Thomas Carroll, Col. Charles Reichenbach, Atty.-Gen.
Jones, State Treasurer Lindsley, J. D. Hogue, C. B. Zabriskie, and Fred
T. Taylor.

The decorations were upon an elaborate scale. Chief among the
attractions of this order were five mammoth arches spanning Pacific
Avenue, constructed from products typifying the principal industries of
the State, to wit: the timber arch, coal arch, iron arch, grain arch,
and shingle arch. Notwithstanding the rain the parade, under Chief
Marshal C. W. Griggs, was a brilliant success.

A noteworthy incident was the special reception tendered to Mrs.
Harrison and the other ladies of the presidential party by the ladies of
Tacoma at the Opera House. Fully 5,000 paid their respects. Mrs. S. C.
Slaughter, on behalf of the ladies of Tacoma, presented to Mrs. Harrison
a beautiful painting of Mt. Tacoma by the artist Rollins. Accompanying
the picture was an illustrated copy of Mrs. Bernice E. Wewell's poem on
"Mt. Tacoma," also a gold engraved spoon, the latter for the President's
grandson. In acknowledging the receipt of these souvenirs Mrs. Harrison
made perhaps her first public speech on the trip. She said:

  _Ladies_--I cannot thank you enough for all your kindness. I shall
  take your gifts home and treasure them all my life as mementos of a
  most enjoyable visit to your beautiful city. [Applause.]

After the review of the procession Governor Ferry, in the presence of
many thousands, formally welcomed President Harrison to the State of
Washington. The distinguished veteran General Sprague made the address
on behalf of the citizens of Tacoma.

The President responded as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I feel that it would be cruel to prolong
  this exposure which you are enduring in the inclement weather of the
  day. I visited your city and the region of Puget Sound six years
  ago. I found this country then enveloped in smoke, so that these
  grand mountain-tops, of which mention has been made in the address
  of welcome, were hidden from our view. I come again and the smoke is
  replaced by fog, and we are still, I suppose, to take the existence of
  these snow-clad peaks on faith. [Laughter and applause.] I don't know
  but there is a benevolent provision for your comfort in the fact that
  this magnificent scenery, this unmatched body of water are frequently
  hidden from the eye of the traveller. If every one who journeys hither
  could see it all everybody would want to live here, and there wouldn't
  be room. [Laughter and cheers.] I congratulate you, citizens of
  Tacoma, upon the magnificent, almost magical, transformation which has
  been wrought here in these six years since I first saw your city. It
  has been amazing: it is a tribute to the energy and the enterprise and
  courage of your people that will endure and increase and attract in a
  yet higher degree the attention of the whole country.

  A harbor like this, so safe and commodious and deep, upon Puget
  Sound, should be made to bear a commerce that is but yet in its
  infancy. I would like to see the prows of some of these great
  steamship lines entering your ports and carrying the American flag
  at the masthead. [Cheers.] I believe we have come to the time in our
  development as a people when we must step forward with bold progress,
  or we will lose the advantage we have already attained. We have within
  ourselves the resources, and a market of which the world is envious.
  We have been content, in the years gone by, to allow other nations
  to do the carrying trade of the world. We have been content to see
  the markets of these American republics lying south of us mastered
  and controlled by European nations. I think the period of discontent
  with these things has now come to our people, and I believe the time
  is auspicious for the enlargement of our commerce with these friendly
  republics lying to the south of us. I believe the time is propitious
  for re-establishing upon the sea the American merchant marine, that
  shall do its share of the carrying trade of the world. [Applause.]

  My friends, I desire to again express to you my regret that to give
  us this magnificent welcome, under circumstances so inauspicious, you
  have been exposed to so much wet. I especially regretted, as I passed
  those long lines of dear school children, that they should have been
  exposed in order to do us honor. I will not detain you longer. For
  your city, for this magnificent young State that we have received
  into the great sisterhood of the Union, of which you are a glorious
  part, we give our aspirations, our prayers, and our best endeavors.
  [Applause.]


_On Steamer "City of Seattle," Puget Sound._

At 11:30 A.M. the President and his party left Tacoma, embarking on the
steamer _City of Seattle_ for the Queen City of the Northwest. There
was a great outpouring at Tacoma to witness the departure, and the
presidential convoy was escorted down the sound by all the steamers in
the bay. As the President came aboard he was met by Mayor and Mrs. Harry
White at the head of the following committee of prominent citizens of
Seattle: Jacob Furth, John H. McGraw, A. W. Bash, Postmaster Griffith
Davies, A. M. Brookes, A. A. Denny, L. S. J. Hunt, W. E. Bailey, F. J.
Grant, President and Mrs. G. W. Hall, President and Mrs. R. W. Jones,
Maj. J. R. Hayden, Mr. and Mrs. E. Brainerd, Mrs. George H. Heilbron,
Mrs. J. C. Haines, Mrs. R. C. Washburn, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Holman, Mrs.
E. L. Terry, Mrs. J. F. McNaught, Mrs. A. B. Stewart, Mrs. James A.
Panting, Mrs. H. F. Jackson and daughter, Mrs. Charles F. Jackson, Mr.
and Mrs. W. R. Bentley, Miss Ina Jameson, Miss Annie Longfellow, Miss
Millie Longfellow, Walter F. Cushing, Col. G. G. Lyon, Dr. Young, D. B.
Ward, Colonel Langley, J. T. Ronald, John Wiley, C. M. Ogden, Colonel
Street, Judge Roger S. Greene, Mr. John Collins, Capt. W. A. Snyder,
ex-Atty.-Gen. J. B. Metcalfe, Lieut. A. B. Wyckoff, and Dr. Whyte
Fredrick.

When the convoy and her noisy consorts had passed out of Commencement
Bay and entered Puget Sound the Reception Committee assembled on deck,
and Mayor White in an address cordially welcomed the President, who, in
response, said:

  _Mr. Mayor_--I accept with great gratification these words of
  welcome on behalf of the citizens of Seattle. It will give me great
  pleasure to contrast my observations of your State in 1885 with what
  I shall see to-day. I have not lost track of the progress of Seattle,
  but have, through friends, been advised of the marvellous development
  which you have made, and how you have repeated in the substantial
  character of your edifices the story of the Chicago fire, coming as
  you have out of what seemed a disaster with increased magnificence,
  and finding in it really an advantage. I will defer until I am in the
  presence of your people any further acknowledgment of your courtesies,
  and will now only thank you, as you are repeating here what we have
  observed on our whole trip, namely, the unification of all our people
  and the absolute oneness of sentiment in devotion to our institutions
  and the flag.




SEATTLE, WASHINGTON, MAY 6.


The steamer bearing the presidential party, followed by a great flotilla
that had come out to greet them, arrived at Seattle at 1:30 P.M., and
fully 40,000 people witnessed the disembarking. The city was profusely
decorated. On Pioneer Place stood a triumphal arch bearing the ensigns
of all nations. Ranged at its entrance were the Sons of Veterans in
uniform and 75 school-girls. As the President's carriage entered the
great arch the choir-girls greeted him with a song of welcome, composed
for the occasion by Prof. L. A. Darling. Near the arch, on a platform,
sat the shrivelled form of Angeline, daughter of Chief Seattle, the last
of the race of royal barbarians who once ruled in the bays and forests
of the sound. She was an object of great interest to the President
and his party. After visiting Lake Washington on the cable cars the
President was escorted to the University campus by Stevens, Miller, and
Cushing posts, G. A. R., M. M. Holmes and J. St. Clair, commanders.
Thirty thousand people were assembled on the campus; officials were
present from every part of the State, also from British Columbia.
Opposite the speakers' stand were 2,000 school children, each waving
a flag. Governor Ferry, Senator John B. Allen, Hon. John H. McGraw,
Jacob Furth, and numerous other prominent men were on the platform with
the President, Secretary Rusk, and Mr. Wanamaker. Rev. G. A. Tewksbury
pronounced the invocation. Judge Thomas Burke then delivered the
welcoming address on behalf of the citizens.

President Harrison replied:

  _Judge Burke and Fellow-citizens_--I am sure you have too much
  kindness in your heart to ask me to make an address to you this
  afternoon. This chilly air, this drizzling rain, the long exposure
  during the day which you and these precious children have suffered,
  warn me, on your account as well as my own, that I should say but a
  few words in recognition of this magnificent welcome. Six years ago
  I visited your beautiful city, and the distinguished gentleman who
  has been your spokesman to-day was one of a hospitable committee that
  pointed out to me the beauties of this location. You were then largely
  a prospective city. Some substantial and promising improvements
  had been begun, but it was a period of expectancy rather than of
  realization. I am glad to come to-day and to see how fully and
  perfectly the large expectations then entertained by your enterprising
  people have been realized. It is a matter of amazement to look upon
  these towering substantial granite and iron structures in which the
  great business of your city is transacted. That disaster, as it seemed
  to you, which swept away a large portion of the business part of your
  city was like the afflictions that come to the saints, a blessing in
  disguise. [Cheers.] You have done what Chicago did. You have improved
  the disaster by rearing structures and completing edifices that were
  unthought of before. Those who were not enterprising or liberal have
  been compelled to be liberal and enterprising in order that they might
  realize rents for their property made vacant by fire. [Cheers.]

  I fully appreciate the importance of this great body of water upon
  which your city is situated. This sound, this inland sea, must be in
  the future the highway, the _entrepot_, of a great commerce. I do most
  sincerely believe that we are entering now upon a new development
  that will put the American flag upon the seas and bring to our ports
  in American bottoms a largely increased share of the commerce of
  the world. [Cheers.] As I have said in other places, for one I am
  thoroughly discontented with the present condition of things. We
  may differ as to methods, but I believe the great patriotic heart
  of our people is stirred, and that they are bent upon recovering
  that share of the world's commerce which we once happily enjoyed.
  Your demonstration to day under these unfavorable environments has
  been most creditable to your city. We have certainly seen nothing
  in a journey characterized by great demonstrations to surpass this
  magnificent scene. [Cheers.] I realize what your spokesman has said,
  that in all this there is a patriotic expression of the love of our
  people for the flag and for the Constitution. [Cheers.] And now, my
  friends, thanking you for all you have done for me, humbly confessing
  my inability to repay you, pledging to you my best efforts to
  promote the good of all our people, and that I will have a watchful
  observation of the needs of your State, of your harbors, for defence,
  improvement, and security, I bid you good by. [Cheers.]

After the President's address an effort was made to present the veterans
individually, but the inclement weather forbade it. Turning to those
about him President Harrison said:

  I leave you very reluctantly, and I shall always be sorry that
  my time was so limited here that I could not do justice to your
  hospitality. [Great cheering.]

At 5 o'clock the party boarded their train, but a great crowd had
assembled and called repeatedly for the President, who responded and
said:

  I can only thank you once more; you have given me a royal welcome,
  and I carry away with me the most grateful memory of your kindness.
  I was up until past midnight last night, making a speech, and had
  to be up at 6 o'clock this morning to speak to some friends in
  Oregon. I leave you with the best wishes for your city and the State.
  [Enthusiastic cheers.]

As the President concluded there were loud calls for Postmaster-General
Wanamaker, who waved his hand toward the children and said:

  The reasons given by the President for not making a speech certainly
  apply to those who are in your programme to follow him. I cannot,
  however, leave the platform without thanking you for that share of the
  welcome that falls to us who attended. There is a chill in the air,
  but there is no lack of warmth in the cordial greeting that you have
  given to us who, though we felt ourselves to be strangers among you,
  have found ourselves to be among friends. I have been trying to find
  out since the census report was announced what the reason was that
  Philadelphia had fallen behind. [Laughter and applause.] It is all
  very plain to me now. This city set on a hill I shall put down in my
  book as Philadelphia Junior. [Applause.] You have the family likeness.
  I recognize some of you by name, and I do not wonder that you have
  settled in this beautiful spot, so rich in its resources, where you
  discovered everything that we have in Pennsylvania except one thing,
  and I expect you will find that before long, and I am sure that I hope
  that you will find the anthracite coal stored away somewhere in your
  hills. I know if you undertake to find it you will do it. [Applause.]
  You need no better illustration than the choir over yonder, that
  could not be stopped even to allow the President to speak. [Applause
  and laughter.] I shall carry away from here a story that I am afraid
  they will call a California story, but I will get your Mayor to give
  me a certificate that I was perfectly sober--that there was nothing
  but water. [Applause and laughter.] And I shall try to recommend
  what I have seen in this wild West, where people have their splendid
  schools, their many churches, their refined homes, and where there is
  such a hearty welcome for all that come in their midst. For my part
  of the work at Washington I have already given you evidence that the
  Post-office Department was thinking of the Pacific coast. I shall
  do the best that I can as a business man for this splendid business
  people that you have in your city and for the many more that are to
  come; that all the facilities of the mail--quickening it, increasing
  it--shall be given to you; that you shall not say that your Government
  does not give you all the assistance in building up your great
  enterprises and swelling the prosperity of all this coast. I say
  good-by to you and give you a heart full of good wishes. [Continued
  applause.]




PUYALLUP, WASHINGTON, MAY 6.


It was 10 P.M. when the train stopped at Puyallup, where a goodly crowd
awaited the visitors. The President shook hands with several score, and
in response to calls for a speech said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I am very glad to see you to-night, but I am
  sure you will excuse me from speaking when you remember that I have
  been out in the rain all day at Tacoma and Seattle, and have had to
  talk several times. I am glad to see you, and appreciate the friendly
  interest you manifest in coming out here to-night in such great
  numbers to greet us with such kindliness. I have known for a long time
  of the great hop industry of this region, and I am glad to know that
  it has proven profitable. The question of the Puyallup reservation was
  one of the last which was brought officially to my attention before
  leaving, and I expect it will be one of the first I shall take up on
  my return. Good-night and good-by.




CHEHALIS, WASHINGTON, MAY 6.


A great crowd greeted the President with cannon and bonfires on his
arrival at Chehalis at 10:30 at night. The Committee of Reception
consisted of Mayor Milet, who delivered an address of welcome; Judge
Ashman, an old comrade of the President's at Resaca; and J. F. Sachs, an
early pioneer, who presented the President a native hawthorn cane.

Responding to greetings the President said:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for this midnight
  reception. We passed you this morning without stopping, and regretted
  it when we saw the number who had collected here. We gladly yielded
  to your request to stop to-night in order to show our appreciation of
  your kindness. It is very pleasant for me to see those people who have
  no interest in politics except for good government. [Cheers.]




CASCADE LOCKS, OREGON, MAY 7.


The first stop on the morning of the 7th was at Cascade Locks, where
several hundred people gave an early morning greeting to the President,
who responded briefly, saying:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for your kindly
  greeting, and, as we stop only a few moments, I can only express my
  sincere thanks for your presence.




HOOD RIVER STATION, OREGON, MAY 7.


At Hood River Station the President shook hands with a number and
addressed the gathering as follows:

  _My Friends_--It is very pleasant to see you this morning, and to
  come out into the sunshine after two or three days of chilly rain. I
  have been talking so much, and so much in the dampness, that my voice
  is not very good; but my heart is always fresh and open to these
  receptions. I thank you very sincerely for your friendliness and wish
  for you all, and especially for these little ones, every happiness in
  life. [Cheers.]




THE DALLES, OREGON, MAY 7.


After traversing the famous gorge of the Columbia River the presidential
train at 11 o'clock emerged within view of the city of The Dalles, where
an enthusiastic welcome was extended the Chief Executive. The Committee
of Reception consisted of Mayor Moody, D. M. French, Dr. William
Shackelford, J. A. Varney, R. F. Gibson, Robert Mays, H. M. Beall, John
McCaul, J. P. McInerry, M. T. Nolan, George Ruch, and the following
prominent ladies of the city: Mrs. T. S. Lang, Mrs. N. B. Sinnott,
Mrs. A. M. Williams, Mrs E. M. Wilson, Mrs. S. French, Mrs. S. Brooks,
Mrs. Geo. Liebe, Mrs. Charles Hilton, and Mrs. J. Patterson. Many old
soldiers and a large number of school children were present.

Mayor Moody, in behalf of the city, welcomed the President, who
responded as follows:

  _My Friends_--I have spoken at all times of the night and all
  hours of the day, and under conditions much less auspicious than
  those around us this morning. We have here a bright sunshine and a
  bracing air, and everything in nature adds to the gladness of this
  demonstration which you have made in our honor. I most sincerely thank
  you for this evidence of your friendliness. I assure you that it is
  very pleasant, and I cannot but believe that it is very useful for
  those who are charged with public duties at Washington occasionally to
  move about a little and look into the faces of the plain, patriotic
  people of the country. Most of the people who come to see me at
  Washington want something, and as the provision made by law is not
  adequate to meet all these wants there is very apt to be a great
  deal of discontent; but when we get out among the great masses of
  the people, among those who are doing the work of the farm, of the
  shop, and of the office, who have a patriotic pride in their country
  and its institutions, and are kindly disposed, charitable in their
  judgments, and who have no other interests than that the laws shall be
  faithfully executed and the whole interest of the people faithfully
  looked after, we find great refreshment in their presence. I am sure
  we have such an audience here this morning. You will not expect of any
  officer that he will altogether avoid mistakes; you have a right to
  expect a conscientious, courageous fidelity to public duty. I quite
  sympathize with the suggestion of your Mayor, that it is one of the
  proper Government functions to improve and to open to safe navigation
  the great waterways of our country. The Government of the United
  States has reserved to itself the exclusive control of all navigable
  inland waters, and that being so, it is, of course, incumbent upon
  the Government to see that the people have the best possible use of
  them. They are important, as they furnish cheap transportation, and
  touch points that are often, either for economy or natural reasons,
  inaccessible to railway traffic. I thank you again for your interest
  and bid you a kindly farewell. If no ill happens to you that I do not
  wish, and all the good comes to you that I do wish in your behalf,
  your lives will be full of pleasantness and peace. [Enthusiastic
  cheers.]




PENDLETON, OREGON, MAY 7.


After leaving The Dalles the presidential party encountered a sand
storm. At 5 o'clock in the afternoon they arrived at the beautiful
city of Pendleton and were greeted by a large crowd, including several
hundred Umatilla Indians, led by Chiefs Peo and Ten-a-ow-itz. Chief Peo
made an address and said:

  I am glad to greet the great father. Indian and white man are now
  one family, friendly, and I give you the hand of welcome for my
  people. You represent one race, I another, but we are all of one
  Government, and between red man and white there should no longer be
  war. My people want only peace. In behalf of my tribe I say welcome,
  President.

The Committee of Reception comprised Mayor J. H. Raley, Judge J. A.
Fee, J. M. Leezer, Senator Matlock, Capt. A. L. Ewing, T. C. Taylor, W.
D. Fletcher, S. Rothchild, T. F. Rourke, R. Alexander, Lot Livermore,
Benj. S. Burroughs, H. L. Marston, T. G. Hailey, W. D. Hansford, F. W.
Vincent, Mrs. M. B. Clopton, Mrs. T. C. Taylor, and Mesdames Fee, De
Spain, and Fletcher. Mayor Raley made an address of welcome.

The President replied:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Among all the surprises that have greeted us
  on our journey I do not remember any that burst upon us with more
  suddenness than this beautiful sight that you have arranged for our
  welcome here. Travelling for some hours through a sparsely settled
  region, I did not at all anticipate that so large an assemblage could
  be gathered here. I am glad to read in your faces a full confirmation
  of the Mayor's words of welcome. You have a pride in the common
  heritage of Government which our fathers organized for us. You honor
  the flag which floats about us here. It is pleasant to meet here,
  scattered over these plains of the West, so many veterans of the great
  Civil War, men who came out of the army poor as they went into it,
  men who did not serve their country for reward, but out of a loving
  fealty to its flag and to their Government; men who asked no questions
  about pay, but went with loyal hearts to battle, determined that the
  flag should be maintained in its supremacy from sea to sea; men who,
  returning safely from the vicissitudes of the camp and the march and
  from the perils of battle, have been ever since giving their brave
  endeavors to open this new country, to increase its prosperity, and
  by honorable labor to make comfortable homes for themselves and their
  children. I greet you to-day, comrades, with a loving heart. God grant
  that these later days--for years are increasing with us all--may be
  full of sunshine, full of the respect of your neighbors, full of
  prosperity, and crowned at last with the full blessing of immortality.

  To these little ones now enjoying the beneficent provisions which
  your State has made for their care and education I give the most
  affectionate greeting. The children of this land are the light and
  the life of our households. They are in the family what the blossoms
  are in the orchard and garden. May they appreciate the blessings they
  enjoy, and when they come to mature years and take up the unfinished
  labors of their fathers, may they hold aloft the flag which their
  fathers followed to battle and maintain all those things that conduce
  to decent and orderly communities and to the purity of the home. To
  these pioneers who have under discouragements and great difficulties
  sought these Western homes and opened the way for civilization I give
  my greeting, and to all I give the assurance that these distant States
  are not forgotten by us who are, for the time, chosen to administer
  public office at Washington. We take you all into our consideration,
  our confidence, and our affection. I believe there is a great
  community of interest that touches all our States. I believe that our
  legislation should be as broad as our territory, should not be for
  classes, but should be always in the interest of all our people. And
  now, thanking you for this most interesting and cordial welcome, I bid
  you good-by. [Cheers].




LE GRANDE, OREGON, MAY 7.


The President had an enthusiastic reception at Le Grande from several
thousand residents. The city was beautifully illuminated in honor of
the visit. The Committee of Reception consisted of Hon. J. H. Slater,
E. S. McComas, M. F. Honan, and R. E. Bryan. Mayor C. H. Finn made the
welcoming address.

The President responded:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is very gratifying to see this vast
  assembly here to-night, and I regret that our arrival was not in
  the daylight, that we might have a better view of this city and its
  surroundings, as well as of these prosperous and happy people who are
  assembled here to-night. We have travelled many thousands of miles
  on this journey, and it has been one continued succession of happy
  greetings. We have passed through the land of flowers, and they have
  strewn our pathway with them. We have come now to this north land
  where the flowers are not so abundant, but where the welcome and
  heartiness of the people is quite as manifest and quite as sincere.
  I rejoice to have had the opportunity to see portions of the State
  of Oregon which I had not previously visited. Your industries and
  products are so varied that working together, supplying the wants of
  different communities by the productions of each, it must be that you
  shall grow in population, and that the rewards of your labor shall be
  full and rich. But above all these material things in which you show
  the country the resources of your people, I rejoice that social order,
  education, good morals, and all those things that tend to promote
  the human happiness, the peace of your communities, and the glory of
  your State, are also here thought of and promoted. [Cheers.] We are
  citizens of one great country, and I do not believe there is a nation
  in the world where there is a more perfect unification of heart and
  purpose than in the United States of America. I do not believe there
  is anywhere any people more earnestly in love with their institutions
  and with the flag that symbolizes them, more in love with peace and
  peaceful industries, and yet stronger in their defence of the truth
  and of the right. [Cheers.] I beg again to thank your citizens of this
  city and of the surrounding country for this gracious and hospitable
  welcome. [Cheers.]




BAKER CITY, OREGON, MAY 7.


The closing event of the long day was the reception at Baker City
at 11:30 P.M. Fifteen hundred people were present and the town was
illuminated. The Reception Committee was Mayor S. B. McCord, Hon. R. S.
Anderson, and Geo. H. Tracy. Joe Hooker Post, G. A. R., Fred K. Ernst,
Commander, was present.

Responding to Mr. Anderson's welcoming address President Harrison said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--It is very pleasing, so late at
  night, to be greeted on our arrival here by this large audience and
  by these hearty cheers. We thank you very sincerely for this evidence
  of your friendly interest, and beg to assure you in return that not
  only as public officers, but as citizens with you of this great
  country, we are in hearty sympathy with all your pursuits and plans
  and hopes in this distant State. I have heard before of its beauty
  and the fertility and productiveness of its wheat fields and of the
  rich mines which are found in this vicinity. Situated as you are, the
  great question with you must be one of transportation, one of getting
  the products of your field, the surplus of your agricultural products,
  to a market. I hope you appreciate all the advantages in this regard
  which the development of these Pacific cities is giving. Every great
  manufacturing establishment that is built there produces and increases
  population, and makes additional and nearer market for the products
  of your fields. I hope the day is not far distant when the completion
  of the Nicaragua Canal will make a shorter way to the Atlantic
  seaboard States and much shorter and cheaper communication with a
  European market. I am glad to be assured--indeed, I do not need the
  assurance--that here in Oregon, as in the Central and Eastern States,
  we are one people, loyal and united in the love for the flag which
  some of these comrades aided to be victorious in the great war, and
  that you are thoroughly in love with our American institutions. I am
  glad to assure you that, so far as I am concerned, I know no sections
  in this country. I desire to promote those measures which shall always
  be for the interests of all classes, and which shall diffuse the
  benefits of our institutions equally and fairly among all the States
  and among all our people. [Cheers.]




BOISE CITY, IDAHO, MAY 8.


Boise City, the capital of Idaho, was reached at 7 o'clock the morning
of the 8th, where a stop of two hours was made. The following committee
of distinguished officials and citizens received the President: His
Excellency Gov. N. B. Willey and official staff, comprising Col. E. J.
Curtis, Col. J. A. Torrance, Lieutenant-Colonel Casswell, and Maj. Geo.
F. Hinton; Senator Geo. L. Shoup, Hon. James A. Pinney, Mayor of Boise
City; R. Z. Johnson, President Board of Trade; John Lemp, Charles A.
Clark, E. R. Leonard, C. W. Moore, J. W. Daniels, Calvin Cobb, A. J.
Glorieaux, Nathan Falk, Peter Sonna, A. R. Andola, J. H. Richards, Hon.
S. W. Moody, Capt. C. C. Stevenson, and Capt. D. W. Figgins.

The President was escorted to the Capitol grounds by Phil. Sheridan
Post, G. A. R., D. F. Baker Commander, A. C. Bellus, Senior
Vice-Commander, N. F. Kimball, Junior Vice-Commander. The parade was in
charge of Maj. H. E. Noyes, of the Fourth Cavalry, and was one of the
most creditable demonstrations witnessed on the trip. The local militia
and more than 1,000 school children participated. Every veteran and
each scholar carried a flag, which elicited from President Harrison a
beautiful tribute to the national symbol.

After the review Governor Willey and Mayor Pinney formally welcomed the
President, who responded as follows:

  _My Friends_--This is instructive and inspiring to us all as
  American citizens. It is my great pleasure to stand for a little while
  this morning in the political Capitol of this fresh and new State.
  I had great satisfaction in taking an official part in admitting
  Idaho to the Union of States. I believed that it was possessed of a
  population and resources and capable of a development that fairly
  entitled her to take her place among the States of the American Union.
  You are starting now upon a career of development which I hope and
  believe will be uninterrupted. Your great mineral resources, now being
  rapidly developed, have already brought you great wealth. Undoubtedly
  these are to continue to be a source of enrichment and prosperity to
  your State, but I do not forget that we must look at last for that
  paramount and enduring prosperity and increase which our States should
  have to a development of their agricultural resources. You will, of
  course, as you have done, carefully guard and secure your political
  institutions. You will organize them upon a basis of economy, and yet
  of liberal progress. You will take care that only so much revenue
  is taken from the people as is necessary to the proper public
  expenditure. [Applause.]

  I am glad to see that this banner of liberty, this flag of our
  fathers, this flag that these--my comrades here present--defended
  with honor and brought home with victory from the bloody strife of
  the Civil War, is held in honor and estimation among you. [Great
  applause.] Every man should take off his hat when the starry flag
  moves by. It symbolizes a free republic; it symbolizes a Nation; not
  an aggregation of States, but one compact, solid Government in all
  its relations to the nations of the earth. [Applause.] Let us always
  hold it in honor. I am glad to see that it floats not only over your
  political Capitol, but over the school-houses of your State; the
  children should be taught in the primary schools to know its story
  and to love it. To these young children, entering by the beneficent
  and early provision of your State into the advantages of that great
  characteristic American institution--the common school--I give my
  greeting this morning. May every good attend them in life, and as the
  cares of life come on to take the place of the joys of childhood, God
  grant that, instructed in mind and heart in those things that are high
  and good, they may bear with honor the responsibility which you will
  soon lay down.

  To these comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, survivors
  of the great war, upon whom the years are making their impression,
  I do not doubt that these who stand by me have borne an honorable
  part among your fellow-citizens in the development of the resources
  of this, their adopted State. Not long will we tarry; but, my
  comrades, the story of what you have done is undying, and I doubt
  not this morning that the satisfaction of having had some small part
  in redeeming this Nation and preserving its integrity will fill
  your hearts with gladness, even under adverse conditions of life.
  A grateful Nation honors you. Every community should give you its
  respect, and I can only add to-day a comrade's greeting and a hearty
  God bless you all! [Cheers.]




POCATELLO, IDAHO, MAY 8.


A great crowd, including several hundred Indians, greeted the
President's arrival at Pocatello the night of the 8th. The Committee of
Reception consisted of Frederick K. Walker, A. B. Bean, A. F. Caldwell,
John S. Baker, O. L. Cleveland, R. J. Hayes, E. C. Hasey, George Dash,
Frank Ramsey, J. J. Guheen, H. G. Guynn, and L. A. West. A large
delegation from Blackfoot was represented on the committee by Hon. F. W.
Beane, Col. J. W. Jones, and F. W. Vogler.

Chairman Savidge of the committee delivered the welcoming address and
introduced the President, who said:

  _Fellow-citizens_--In 1881, that sad summer when General Garfield
  lay so long in agony and the people suffered so long in painful
  suspense, I passed up the Utah and Northern Narrow Gauge Railroad
  through this place--if it was a place then--to Montana on a visit.
  The country through which we have passed is therefore not unfamiliar
  to me. I have known of its natural conditions, and I have seen
  its capabilities when brought under the stimulating influence of
  irrigation. I have had, during my term in the Senate, as Chairman of
  the Committee on Territories of that body, to give a good deal of
  attention to the condition and needs of our Territories. My sympathy
  and interest have always gone out to those who, leaving the settled
  and populous parts of our country, have pushed the frontiers of
  civilization farther and farther to the westward until they have met
  the Pacific Ocean and the setting sun. Pioneers have always been
  enterprising people. If they had not been they would have remained at
  home; they endured great hardships and perils in opening these great
  mines of minerals which show in your State, and in bringing into
  subjection these wild plains and making them blossom like gardens.
  To all such here I would do honor, and you should do honor, for they
  were heroes in the struggle for the subjugation of an untamed country
  to the uses of man. I am glad to see that you have here so many happy
  and prosperous people. I rejoice at the increase of your population,
  and am glad to notice that with this development in population and in
  material wealth you are giving attention to those social virtues--to
  education and those influences which sanctify the home, make social
  order secure, and honor and glorify the institutions of our common
  country. [Cheers.]

  I am glad, not only for the sake of the white man, but of the red
  man, that these two extensive and useless reservations are being
  reduced by allotment to the Indians for farms, which they are expected
  to cultivate and thereby to earn their own living [cheers], that the
  unneeded lands shall furnish homes for those who need homes. [Cheers.]

  And now, fellow-citizens, extending to such comrades of the Grand
  Army of the Republic as I see scattered about through this audience my
  most cordial greeting as a comrade, to these children and these ladies
  who share with you the privations of early life on the frontier, and
  to all my most cordial greeting and most sincere thanks for your
  kindly demonstration, I will bid you good-by. [Great cheering.]




SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 9.


At Pocatello the President was met by a committee representing the
citizens of Ogden, Utah, who took this opportunity to pay their
respects, it being impracticable to hold a reception in that city owing
to the late hour the train passed. The Ogden committee consisted of
Mayor W. H. Turner and wife, Hon. James A. Miner, E. M. Allison and
wife, J. R. Elliott, W. N. Shilling and wife, Capt. Ransford Smith, Wm.
H. Smith, M. N. Graves and wife, Col. A. C. Howard, Rev. A. J. Bailey,
E. M. Correl and wife, Thomas Bell, J. Cortez and wife, W. W. Funge
and wife, O. E. Hill and wife, John N. Boyle, Gilbert Belnap and wife,
Joseph Belnap, J. S. Painter, Maj. R. H. Whipple, W. R. White, and Prof.
T. B. Lewis.

The committee appointed by Governor Thomas to meet and welcome the
President at the State line on behalf of the Territory of Utah consisted
of Hon. E. P. Ferry, of Park City; H. G. Whitney, O. J. Salisbury, and
M. K. Parsons, of Salt Lake; Lieutenant Dunning, of Fort Douglas; and
Chief-Justice Zane, Associate Justice Anderson, Hon. C. S. Varian,
Colonel Godfrey, John E. Dooly, Heber M. Wells, E. C. Coffin, and
Spencer Clawson.

The presidential party arrived at the "City of Zion" at 2:45 A.M. At
8 o'clock they were met by Governor Thomas and Mayor Geo. M. Scott at
the head of the following Citizens' Committee of Reception: Secretary
Sells, Irving A. Benton, General Kimball, Colonel Nelson, Commissioner
Robertson, C. C. Goodwin, Hon. J. T. Caine, R. C. Chambers, Fred Simon,
Hoyt Sherman, Ellsworth Daggett, Judge Blackburn, Colonel Lett, James
Hansborough, Frank D. Hobbs, Judge Miner, General Connor, Judge Bartch,
J. H. Rumel, C. E. Allen, Arthur Pratt, H. G. McMillan, J. P. Bache,
Judge Boreman, W. H. H. Spafford, A. J. Pendleton, Fred Heath, W. L.
Pickard, H. Pembroke, Daniel Wolstenholm, Councilman Armstrong, W.
P. Noble, Louis Cohn, W. P. Lynn, L. C. Karrick, E. R. Clute, J. B.
Walden, J. M. Young, Sheriff Burt, Selectmen Howe, Miller, and Cahoon;
C. B. Jack, W. H. Bancroft, R. Mackintosh, J. H. Bennett, Robert
Harkness, H. W. Lawrence, J. B. Toronto, and Mesdames Zane, Salisbury,
Dooly, Blunt, Chambers, Goodwin, James, Anderson, Lawrence, Gaylord,
Simon, and Bartch; Miss Robertson, Mrs. I. A. Benton, and Mrs. Hobbs.
This committee and a large body of citizens escorted the party to the
Walker House, where breakfast was served. The President then headed a
procession, composed of U.S. troops, State guards, G. A. R. veterans,
pioneers, and many other local organizations, and was escorted to a
pavilion in Liberty Park.

Governor Thomas and Mayor Scott delivered welcoming addresses, to which
President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Fellow-citizens_--The scenes which have been presented to us in
  this political and commercial metropolis of the Territory of Utah have
  been very full of beauty and full of hope. I have not seen in all this
  long journey, accompanied as it has been with every manifestation of
  welcome and crowned with flowers, anything that touched my heart more
  than that beautiful picture on one of your streets this morning when
  the children from the free public schools of Salt Lake City, waving
  the one banner that we all love [cheers] and singing an anthem of
  praise to that beneficent Providence that led our worthy forefathers
  to land and has followed the pathway of this Nation with His
  beneficent care until this bright hour, gave us their glad welcome.
  [Applause and cheers.]

  My service in public life has been such as to call my special
  attention to, and to enlist my special interest in, the people of
  the Territories. It has been a pleasant duty to welcome the Dakotas,
  Washington, Montana, Idaho, and Wyoming into the great sisterhood of
  the States. I think it has not fallen to any President of the United
  States to receive into the Union so large a number of States. The
  conditions that surround you in this Territory are of the most hopeful
  character. The diversity of your productions, your mines of gold and
  silver, iron, lead and coal, placed in such proximity as to make the
  work of mining and reduction easy and economical; your well-watered
  valley, capable, under the skilful touch of the husbandman, of
  transformation from barren wastes into fruitful fields--all these
  lying in easy reach and intercommunication, one with the other, must
  make the elements of a great commercial and political community. You
  do not need to doubt the future. You will step forward confidently and
  progressively in the development of your great material wealth.

  The great characteristic of our American institutions--the compact
  of our Government--is that the will of the majority, expressed by
  legal methods at the ballot box, shall be the supreme law of all
  our community. To the Territories of the United States a measure of
  local government has always been given, but the supervisory control,
  the supreme legislative and executive power has been, continuously,
  as to the Territories, held and exercised by the general Government
  at Washington. The territorial state has always been regarded as a
  temporary one. The general Government has always looked forward to a
  division of its vast domain--first, the territory northwest of the
  Ohio, then the Louisiana purchase, then these accessions upon the
  Pacific coast--into suitable sections for the establishment of free
  and independent States. This great work of creating States has gone
  forward from the Ohio to the Pacific, and now we may journey from
  Maine to Puget Sound through established States. [Cheers.]

  The purity of the ballot-box, the wise provisions and careful
  guardianship that shall always make the expression of the will of the
  people fair, pure and true, is the essential thing in American life.
  We are a people organized upon principles of liberty, but, my good
  countrymen, it is not license. It is liberty within and under the law.
  [Great applause.] I have no discord, as a public officer, with men of
  any creed or politics if they will obey the law. My oath of office, my
  public duty, requires me to be against those who violate the law.

  The foundation of American life is the American home. That which
  distinguishes us from other nations whose political experience and
  history have been full of strife and discord is the American home,
  where one wife sits in single uncrowned glory. [Great applause and
  cheers.] And now, my countrymen, I beg to assure you that every hope
  you have for safe running on these lines of free government, on these
  lines of domestic and social order, I have. For every one of you I
  have the most cordial greeting. God bless and keep you and guide you
  in the paths of social purity, order, and peace, and make you one of
  the great communities of the American Union. [Cheers.]


_Chamber of Commerce Speech._

The visitors were then taken to the new Chamber of Commerce, where the
business men of the city greeted the Chief Executive. The occasion was
also the formal opening of the building for business.

President Harrison made an address. He said:

  I am very glad to witness in this magnificent structure which
  you are opening to-day for your use an evidence of the commercial
  importance of the city. Organizations of this character are very
  useful when rightly conducted, very promotive of the business
  prosperity of the cities in which they are established, and of the
  best interest of their membership. It is quite right that those who
  may be engaged in the rivalries of business, pushing their several
  lines of trade with the energy and enterprise that characterize our
  people, should now and then assemble and lay aside things that are
  personal and selfish and consider the things that affect the whole
  community. These organizations, as I have known them in other States,
  have been the council chamber in which large and liberal things have
  been devised for the development of the interests and prosperity of
  the community. I do not doubt that you will do so here; that new
  enterprise will be welcomed, and that the friendly business hand
  will be extended to those who are seeking investments. I wish you
  all success in this enterprise, and I hope you may grow until its
  membership shall embrace all of your commercial classes, and that
  its influence may do for your business here what the water of your
  mountain streams has done for the plains--make them grow longer and
  more productive, and at the same time expel from them those mean
  jealousies which sometimes divide men. [Prolonged Cheers.]


_Address to the School Children._

The party visited the Mormon Tabernacle, which was profusely decorated
with bunting and flags. On the side of the Temple in large letters
was the motto "Fear God; Honor the President." The entire city was
tastefully decorated. The President reviewed the school children, about
2,000 in number. They rendered patriotic songs, and he addressed them in
the following happy speech:

  _To the School Children_--In all this joyous journey through
  this land of flowers and the sunny South I have seen nothing more
  beautiful and inspiring than this scene which burst upon us so
  unexpectedly. This multitude of children bearing waving banners
  makes a scene which can never fade from our memories. Here, in these
  children from the free schools established and guarded by your public
  authorities, is the hope of Utah and the country. [Cheers.] I give you
  my thanks for a demonstration that has cheered my heart. May each of
  you enjoy every blessing that a free country and a more beneficent and
  kindly Creator can bestow. [Cheers.]




LEHI CITY, UTAH, MAY 9.


The first stop after leaving the capital of Utah was at Lehi City, where
a large sugar factory is located. The Committee of Reception consisted
of Mayor A. J. Evans, Bishop T. R. Cutler, James Harwood, and C. A.
Granger.

The President made a brief address, saying:

  _My Friends_--This industry which you have established here is very
  interesting to me. I hope it is to open the way to a time when we
  shall have a home supply of sugar for every household. [Cheers.]




PROVO CITY, UTAH, MAY 9.


The presidential train arrived at Provo--the Garden City of Utah--at
1:30 P.M. The greeting was a cordial one; about 1,000 school children
were present. The Reception Committee was Mayor J. E. Booth, R. H. Dodd,
J. R. Bishop, J. B. McCauslin, M. M. Kellogg, W. S. Myton, E. A. Wilson,
Wm. H. King, D. D. Houtz, Dr. J. N. Christensen, Dr. H. Simmons, F. F.
Reed, G. W. Olger, and W. Burlew.

Mayor Booth introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--This is another of those bright
  and beautiful pictures that have been spread before our eyes on this
  whole journey from Washington. I am glad to stop for a moment in this
  enterprising and prosperous city. I am glad to know that you are
  adding manufacturing to your agriculture, and that you are weaving
  some of the abundance of wool that is furnished by your flocks. It is
  the perfection of society, commercially, when you find immediately
  at your own doors a market for those things that you have to sell.
  You are a long way from the seaboard. The transportation companies,
  however fair their rates may be, must levy very heavy tolls upon your
  produce for taking it to the Atlantic or to the Pacific. It is then
  a pleasing thing when, instead of sending your wool to some distant
  city to be woven into cloth, you can do that work yourselves as you
  develop, bringing in these manufacturing industries whose employees
  consume the products of your farm and in turn give to the farmer that
  which he and his children have to wear. You are approaching the most
  independent commercial condition. When every farmer is able to sell
  from his own wagon everything he produces and is emancipated from
  transportation tolls, he is independent and prosperous.

  I am glad to see these dear children here coming from the free
  schools of your city. The public school is a most wholesome and
  hopeful institution. It has an assimilative power possessed by no
  other institution in our country. Where the children of rich and poor
  mingle together on the play-ground and in the school-room, there is
  produced a unity of feeling and a popular love for public institutions
  that can be brought about in no other way. [Cheers.] God bless and
  promote your public schools until every child in your Territory shall
  be gathered into them. [Cheers.]




AMERICAN FORK, UTAH, MAY 9.


Early in the afternoon a brief stop was made at American Fork, where
several hundred children were marshalled under Bishop George Halliday
(Mormon) and Rev. F. G. Webster. The Reception Committee consisted of
Mayor George Cunningham, James Chipman, John J. Cushing, and John F.
Pribyl.

The President, addressing the school children, said:

  I want to express my interest in these dear children who have
  gathered here. It is very pleasant to have at all these little
  stations these expressions of your good-will. I rejoice to see the
  development which has taken place in these regions since I was here a
  few years ago, and I have no doubt that it will go on until all your
  valleys are prosperous and full of happy homes. [Cheers.]




SPRINGVILLE, UTAH, MAY 9.


As the presidential train reached Castle Gate, a mining town on the
summit of the Wahsatch Mountains, the people turned out _en masse_. A
salute was fired with dynamite cartridges. The President briefly thanked
the people for their greeting.

At Springville, the last stopping-point in Utah, the committee that
welcomed the President consisted of Don C. Johnson, Joseph M. Westwood,
H. M. Dougall, R. A. Deal, and Anthony Ethier.

Governor Thomas introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Friends_--Your towns in Utah are very close together. I scarcely
  close an address at one before we are in the corporate limits of
  another; but I am glad to receive here this pleasant welcome. The
  evidence of kindliness which I read in all your faces is very
  reassuring and very comforting. It is delightful, I think, to those
  who are charged with public duties to come now and then and look
  into the faces of the people who have no other interest than that
  the Government shall be well administered. [Cheers.] I cannot hope,
  of course, to give a post office to everybody. I have endeavored in
  the selection of those who are to administer the functions of public
  office for the general Government to secure good men. I have desired
  that everywhere they should understand that they were the servants of
  the people [applause], that they were to give the best public service
  possible, and that they were to treat everybody alike.

  It has been very pleasant to-day to ride through this most
  extraordinary valley, and to notice how productive your fields are and
  how genial and kindly your people are. [Cheers.]

  I am to do whatever I can in public office to serve our people.
  I am glad to contribute whatever I can as a citizen to the general
  prosperity and to the glory and dignity of our country. [Cheers.]

  And now one word or two to these few comrades who gather about me.
  They are not many, but they are entitled to honor. Those who struggled
  in the early years to establish homes in the West, and those who in
  the hour of public distress and peril bared their breasts to the
  shaft of battle that the Nation might live, are worthy of the highest
  regard. [Cheers.] You have entered into the heritage which they
  bought and preserved. May you, with as true, loyal hearts as they,
  preserve and hand down to your children these institutions. [Cheers.]




GLENWOOD SPRINGS, COLORADO, MAY 10.


At an early hour Sunday morning, May 10, the presidential party arrived
at Glenwood Springs, where they were met by the Governor of Colorado,
Hon. J. L. Routt, Chief-Justice J. C. Helm, Hon. N. P. Hill, ex-Senator
H. A. W. Tabor, and Congressman Townsend, from Denver. At 8 o'clock
the Hon. J. L. Hodges, Mayor of the city, with Judge G. D. Thayer,
L. Schwarz, C. W. Darrow, J. H. Fesler, F. Mager, and M. W. Mather,
escorted the party to the Hotel Glenwood, where they passed the day. The
President and Postmaster-General Wanamaker attended divine services at
the Presbyterian Church. The pastor, Rev. W. S. Rudolph, was assisted by
Rev. A. E. Armstrong, of Leadville, and Rev. L. N. Haskell, of Denver,
Chaplain of the State Senate. The city was filled with thousands of
visitors from Aspen and other neighboring mining towns and camps until
over 10,000 people were gathered--notwithstanding it was the Sabbath--to
greet the Chief Magistrate of the Nation.

When the President returned from witnessing several members of his party
enjoy a dip in the mammoth pool he was met by Mayor Hodges at the head
of the following Reception Committee of prominent citizens: Joseph Love,
A. W. Dennis, Reed Burritt, F. C. Ewing, F. S. Dart, F. C. Sohram, H.
C. Eaton, J. R. De Remer, Alex. Anderson, A. W. Dennis, Miles Standish,
J. L. Hays, W. H. Hallett, H. R. Kamm, J. T. McLean, W. H. Bradt, J.
R. Wallingford, J. G. Pease, Paul Blount, J. H. Campbell, C. B. Ellis,
B. T. Napier, Thomas Kendrick, E. T. Wolverton, Fred Korupkat, C. A.
Lee, Dr. G. H. Moulton, M. V. B. Blood, James Leach, P. F. Carr, George
Edinger, W. H. Spear, Joseph Enzensperger, C. M. Keck, J. W. Beaman, J.
M. Stevens, R. O. Hoover, E. Schuster, J. W. Ross, William Chrisman, G.
H. Ferris, F. A. Enoch, Frank Lindsley, Frank Kaiser, J. A. I. Claudon,
F. A. Barlow, Ed. B. Everett, N. Falk, H. C. Bunte, H. W. Ennen, William
Dougan, Dr. L. G. Clark, James Anderson, Chris. Beck, J. S. Swan, H. J.
Holmes, James Coughlin, S. H. Wood, John Miller, N. S. Henderson, J. M.
Durand, Jr., Matt. Carroll, John Lynch, W. H. Trumbor, S. W. Nott, B.
Hopkins, William Houston, C. V. Noble, C. M. Kiggins, Dr. E. A. Bryant,
J. N. Bishop, William Denning, A. Miller, J. H. Connor, C. H. Belding,
William Dinkle, C. L. Todd, George Yule, C. A. Hahn, H. H. Gates, James
Soister, C. C. Hendrie, P. R. Morris, J. L. Noonan, Fred L. Walthers,
T. W. Thomas, C. C. Parks, J. T. Shumate, Wm. Gelder, M. J. Bartley, A.
E. Bartlett, John McReavy, W. S. Parkinson, Frank Dallis, E. H. Watson,
J. H. Bixby, Jake Kline, M. M. Cantrell, J. H. Pierce, C. C. Streeter,
E. T. Taylor, John Eitel, P. C. Coryell, Frank Mason, Fred Korn, W.
H. Richardson, H. C. Babize, George Bennett, Frank Lyle, J. F. Myser,
R. Stees, J. W. Ritter, R. P. Mallaby, W. De Long, L. F. Grace, Ed.
Meachem, Andrew Anderson, Joe Keating, W. H. Sikes, W. L. Willoughby,
T. R. Williams, J. W. Dollison, Alex. Voorhees, Theo. Rosenberg, H. T.
Sale, S. J. De Lan, William Cardnell, G. B. Garrison, R. M. Hedden, P.
H. Fitzpatrick, C. W. Durand, Kellie Cookson, Albert Gerstle, F. P.
Monroe, William Shaw, C. J. Feist, E. E. Knight, George Phillips, Ed. S.
Hughes, D. W. Smart, P. G. Foote, W. T. Beans, C. Poole, J. H. Mager, W.
J. Brennan, Murdo McLeod, J. E. Chaney, A. W. Maxfield, William Smith,
A. M. Stevenson, C. B. Brown, M. N. Edwards, and Harry Van Sickle.

The Mayor made the welcoming address and presented the President with a
solid silver plate, superbly engraved with the coat-of-arms of Colorado.

President Harrison replied:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--In arranging the programme of this
  trip, and desiring to find one day in the seven for rest, we selected
  this spot because of its fame throughout the East as one of delightful
  location and natural attractions. I am glad this selection was made.
  It has given me much pleasure--the beauty of your surroundings
  and especially the picturesque attractiveness and magnificence of
  the scenery. The city which you are launching forth upon the tide
  of usefulness and prosperity will grow in fame. I thank you most
  cordially for this souvenir, and I leave with you my most earnest hope
  for the prosperity of the city.

Senator Tabor introduced a delegation from Aspen representing 1,000
miners from that famous camp. Col. E. F. Browne then presented a most
unique souvenir--a silver card bearing mottoes worked in native wire
silver.

In accepting this rare token the President said:

  This is one of the most beautiful of all the souvenirs that have
  been presented me on this trip. I wish to say to you that I do not
  regard your visit as an intrusion. I will not undertake to dilate upon
  the fatigue of this trip. I have been leaning over the hind rail of
  the train for a long time, and I came to Glenwood Springs tired. I
  wish to remain quiet, not from any puritanical notion of the Sabbath,
  and I hope none of you will feel that way. It is not because I don't
  want to see you. It is the contrary, I assure you, and I regret my
  inability to give you all a public reception.

  I have for Aspen and her people the kindest wishes. As for the State
  of Colorado, it will grow more vigorous and richer in all that makes
  an American commonwealth.

  In common with Western States, Colorado has had the pick of the
  people of the Eastern States. It seems to me as though her citizens
  had passed competitive examination for push and enterprise, and only
  the worthless were turned back at the ferry. I thank you for your
  liberality.

Charles R. Bell, of Aspen, State President Patriotic Order Sons of
America, presented the President with an address. In the afternoon
President Harrison and Mr. Wanamaker attended union services and
children's mass-meeting at Durand's Hall. Rev. H. M. Law presided, but
Mayor Hodges introduced the President, who said:

  _Mr. Mayor, Fellow-citizens and Children_--Our stop at Glenwood
  Springs was, as you all know, intended to be for rest; and yet I
  have not felt that I could deny myself to this large body of friends
  assembled from the homes of this city, and, perhaps, to an even larger
  body of friends who have come from some of the neighboring towns to
  pay their respects and testify their good-will. The trip we have
  been making has been a prolonged one, and it has been a continued
  experience of speech-making and hand-shaking. The physical labor has
  been very great, and I think if one had been called upon to do the
  same amount of work without the stimulus and inspiration which have
  come from the happy faces and kind hearts of the people who have
  greeted us, almost any man would have given out. Certainly I would had
  I not been borne up and helped by the wonderful kindness of our people.

  I have been intensely interested in what I have seen. It has
  testified to me of the unity of the people East and West. Out here
  you take on some peculiarities as we do in Indiana, but underneath
  these peculiarities there is the same true American grit and spirit.
  [Applause.] It is not wonderful that this should be so. It is not a
  mere likeness between different people, because you are precisely
  the same people that I have known in the Central and Eastern States.
  Everywhere I have gone I have seen Hoosiers; everywhere Mr. Wanamaker
  has gone he has seen Pennsylvanians; everywhere General Rusk has gone
  Wisconsin hands have been reached up to him. These new States have
  been filled up by the enterprising and pushing young men of the older
  States. They have set out to find here greater advantages, more rapid
  pathways to wealth and competence. Many of them have found it, many of
  them are still perhaps in the hard struggle of life; but to you all,
  to every man, whether he is mine-owner or handles the pick, I bring
  you my warmest sympathy and my most sincere thanks for your friendly
  greeting. [Applause.]

  Our Government was instituted by wise men--men of broad views. It
  was based upon the idea of the equal rights of men. It absolutely
  rejects the idea of class distinction and insists that men should
  be judged by their behavior. That is a good rule; those who are
  law-abiding and well-disposed, those who pursue their vocations
  lawfully and with due respect to the rights of others, are the true
  American citizens. I am glad to know that the love of our institutions
  is so deeply imbedded in your hearts. It has been a most delightful
  and cheering thing to see that the starry banner, the same old flag
  that some of you carried amid the smoke of battle, the rattle of
  musketry, booming of cannon, and the dying of men, is in the hands of
  such children. [Applause.] Some of the prettiest as well as some of
  the most hopeful sights we have looked upon have been these companies
  of children gathered on the streets or hill-sides waving this banner.

  The American institutions deserve our watchful care. All our
  communities should be careful in the beginning to establish law and
  maintain it. It is very difficult when lawlessness once obtains the
  upper hand to put it down. It is very easy to keep it out of any
  community if the well-disposed, true-hearted people will sink all
  their differences, religious and political, and stand together as
  citizens for the good of their municipalities. [Applause.]

  I want to thank the children who have gathered for this
  Sabbath-day's observance. I have had a life that has been full of
  labor. From my early manhood until this hour my time has had many
  demands upon it. I have been under the pressure of the practice of
  my profession. I have been under the pressure of political campaigns
  and of public office, and yet in all these pursuits, and under all
  these conditions, I have found, simply as a physical question, without
  reference to its religious aspects at all, that I could do more by
  working six days than seven.

  I think you will all find it so, and that as a civil institution
  rest on the Sabbath day is good for man. It is not only good, but it
  is the right of the workingman. Men should have one free day in which
  to think of their families, of themselves, of things that are not
  material, but are spiritual. [Applause.]

  I desire to express from a sincere and earnest heart my thanks to
  you all for all your kindness, giving you in return simply the pledge
  that I will in all things keep in mind what seems to me to be the true
  interests of our people. I have no thought of sections, I have no
  thought upon any of the great public questions that does not embrace
  the rights and interests of all our people and all our States. I
  believe we shall find a common interest and safe ground upon all the
  great questions, and by moderating our own views and making reasonable
  and just concessions we shall find them all settled wisely and in the
  true interest of the people. [Applause.]




LEADVILLE, COLORADO, MAY 11.


Leadville, the Cloud City, was reached at 7:30 A.M. Monday. Ten thousand
citizens greeted the Chief Magistrate at this greatest of silver camps.
The following delegation met the presidential party at Glenwood and
escorted them to Leadville: His Honor Mayor John E. Foutz, Hon. H. I.
Higgins, W. Arens, John Harvey, A. Sherwin, A. V. Hunter, S. F. Maltby,
John Ewing, John Williams, W. F. Patrick, H. C. Burnett, Rev. A. E.
Armstrong, Mrs. Foutz, Mrs. Hunter, Mrs. Morgan H. Williams, and Mrs.
E. Forbes. The ladies of this committee presented Mrs. Harrison with
numerous beautiful silver souvenirs.

Chairman Higgins and the following members of the Reception Committee
escorted the party to the Hotel Kitchen: Mrs. W. F. Patrick, W. W. Old,
Mrs. J. Y. Oliver, A. A. Blow, Mrs. H. W. Hardinge, Charles Cavender,
Rev. E. S. Ralston, B. S. Buell, Samuel Brown, A. Sherwin, Robert Estey,
H. R. Pendery, Charles L. Hill, J. S. Jones, Robert Cary, Geo. W.
Trimble, C. P. Schumacher, J. S. Saunders, John Harvey, J. H. Weddle,
John Nowland, W. F. Patrick, Hon. Wm. Kellogg, Frank G. White, John
F. Champion, James Smith, Moses Londoner, J. J. M. McRobbie, Maj. A.
V. Bohn, and John Lumsden. The veterans of Garfield Post, G. A. R.,
composed the guard of honor. Judge Luther M. Goddard made the welcoming
address, and in the name of the city presented the distinguished visitor
a silver brick.

The President responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--This rare, pure atmosphere, this
  bright sunshine, the national colors, this multitude of lifted,
  smiling faces to greet us is a scene that should raise the dullest
  heart to emotions of thankfulness and pride--pride wholly separated
  from personal considerations, a pride in which everything personal
  is swallowed up by the contemplation that all this is the outcome,
  the manifestation, the culmination of free American institutions.
  [Cheers.] We stand here on this mountain-top and see what I think
  is the highest evidence of American pluck to be found in the United
  States. [Laughter and applause.] I have addressed my fellow-citizens
  on many thousands of occasions, but never before stood so near
  the dome. [Cheers.] It is a wonderful testimony to the energy and
  adaptation of the American that he should have pushed his way to this
  high altitude, above the snow-line, and erected here these magnificent
  and extensive industries and these beautiful and happy homes. I
  rejoice with you in all that has been accomplished here.

  I bring thanks to you for that great contribution you have made to
  the wealth of a country we all love. [Cheers.] I bring to you the
  assurance that as an individual citizen and as a public officer my
  interest, my affection, and my duty embrace all the people of this
  land. [Cries of "Good!" and cheers.]

  I am glad to know we have in the past history of our country found
  that happy unity of interest which has acted beneficially upon all
  our institutions and all our people. With due regard to all local
  interests, we should seek that general legislation which touches with
  kindly fingers the humblest homes in our land. I do most sincerely
  thank you for this token of the product of your mines. It is a
  precious metal, but much more precious to me is the kindly thought and
  the generous welcome which you have given us in Leadville. [Cheers.]

  My lungs are unaccustomed to this rare and stimulating atmosphere,
  and you will permit me to close by giving you all, to the men who,
  deep down in these mines, are toilsomely working out the precious
  metal, to those who welcome you in your homes when you return from
  your toil, the wives and children who add grace and sweetness to our
  lives, to these children who have gathered to greet us, a most cordial
  salutation and a regretful good-by. [Cheers.]




BUENA VISTA, COLORADO, MAY 11.


Buena Vista gave the President a cordial greeting. The Committee of
Reception included Mayor Mason, Hon. A. R. Kenedy, Capt. A. V. P. Day,
A. H. Wade, Col. Henry Logan, J. C. Stuart, and A. C. Bottorff. Phil.
Sheridan Post, G. A. R., Col. G. D. Childs Commander, participated in
the reception. Dr. Struthers and W. W. Fay presented the President with
three fine trout caught in Thompson's Lake, and weighing six pounds each.

President Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--I am very glad to see your bright and kind faces this
  morning, and to tarry for a few moments, just long enough to say "How
  do you do?" and "Good-by." It is very pleasant to find everywhere
  and at every station the same friendly looks and the same kindly
  greeting. I am glad to have an opportunity that I have not previously
  had of seeing the State of Colorado, great in her present condition
  and having a greater future development than perhaps you yourselves
  realize. This combination of agricultural and mining industries can
  work but good for the high development of Colorado. Your cattle and
  your sheep and your mines and your agriculture in your valleys all
  produce that ideal condition of things in which you find a nearer
  market for what you raise. I hope the time will come when in addition
  to smelting furnaces in your mines you will learn to weave the
  wool from your sheep in place of sending it abroad to be made into
  clothing. The more you can develop these things and do your own work
  the more prosperous will be your condition. These dear children have
  cheered me heartily all the way on this journey. The public schools
  are worthy of your most thoughtful care. It is there that the children
  meet on a common ground. It is there class distinctions are wiped out.
  It is the great American institution. You have well named your little
  hamlet Buena Vista. [Cheers.]




SALIDA, COLORADO, MAY 11.


Three thousand people from the surrounding district welcomed the
President at Salida. The Reception Committee consisted of Mayor John G.
Hollenbeck, J. H. Stead, S. M. Jackson, W. W. Roller, J. A. Israel, E.
B. Jones, and W. P. Harbottle. Stanton Post, G. A. R., W. G. Westfall
Commander, and the children of the public schools were present. Miss
Clara Ayers, on behalf of the public schools, presented Mrs. Harrison
with a handsome portfolio of Colorado wild flowers prepared by Mrs.
E. P. Chester. Dr. Durbin, on behalf of the citizens of Villa Grove,
presented a fine collection of mineral specimens.

President Harrison spoke as follows:

  I have looked with great interest, in passing through these
  mountain gorges, at the enterprise of the people who have constructed
  intersecting lines of railroad upon these difficult grades and
  through threatening cañons. It has not been many days since such
  feats of engineering would have been regarded as impossible, and yet
  now railroads have touched the highest points, have gone above the
  snow line, have reached elevated mines, and brought isolated valleys
  into rapid and easy communication with the more settled parts of the
  country. It has given me great pleasure to look upon the beautiful
  valley in which the town of Salida is situated, and which will
  undoubtedly be capable of large agricultural production when a system
  of irrigation is completed. It might be desirable to the people of
  Indiana and Illinois and other agricultural States if Colorado had
  to buy her wheat and corn from them, but our larger interest makes
  it desirable that every community should supply its own wants. I
  anticipate with pleasure the day when these mountain States will
  not be content with mining, but shall add agricultural pursuits and
  manufacturing, and when the wool which is sheared from the flocks will
  be woven at home. [Cheers.]

  It is a pleasant condition of things when all classes are
  prosperous, when the workingman has fair wages that leave him some
  margin above his daily necessities. I should lose hope for our
  institutions when there should be despairing classes among us. An
  American citizen could not be a good citizen who did not have hope in
  his heart. Every boy, however humble, can pass through our public
  schools and climb to any position of usefulness and honor he has
  the ability to attain. There have been marvellous instances of what
  courage and pluck and intelligence may do in this way.

  To the children I give a cordial greeting. They have been a happy
  feature of almost every gathering in the journey. I hope they may
  all receive that attention which will make them men and women of
  intelligence, and capable of taking a full share in all these good
  things in the community and in the State, for which they are to be
  responsible. [Cheers.]




CAÑON CITY, COLORADO, MAY 11.


Leaving Salida the route lay through a stretch of country unsurpassed
in grandeur. The train made a short stop on the hanging bridge over the
Arkansas River in the Grand Cañon. Emerging through the Royal Gorge
the party reached Cañon City at 2 P.M. amid the cheers of its entire
population, including 400 school children. Mayor J. M. Bradbury, T. M.
Harding, A. D. Cooper, and Warden W. A. Smith were among the prominent
residents who welcomed the President; also, Greenwood Post, G. A. R.,
Dr. J. L. Prentiss, Commander.

President Harrison spoke as follows:

  _Comrades and Fellow-citizens_--It gives me great pleasure to see
  you and accept with a thankful heart those cordial greetings with
  which you have met us. I have been talking so much since I left
  Washington that I really am almost talked out; and yet, until I shall
  have altogether lost my voice, of which there does not seem to be any
  prospect, I cannot refrain from saying thank you to those friends who
  greet us with such affectionate interest. We do appreciate it very
  highly. But I do not at all assume it is merely your interest in me.
  It is, I am sure, your interest in the country, in its Constitution,
  and in its flag--the flag for which these comrades fought, which they
  carried through the stress of battle and brought home in honor. It is
  our free institutions, our free ballot, our representative Government,
  that you all honor in coming here to-day. It is very surprising and
  very pleasant to drop down out of these snow-clad summits and to have
  passed into our hands in the valley, branches of peach and pear and
  bouquets of flowers, the first fruits of spring--a spring more genial
  here than it seemed at Leadville this morning. [Applause.] I am very
  glad to have revealed to me the possibilities of this country, and to
  see how, under the system of irrigation, that which seemed to be a
  waste--accursed of God--comes to be a very garden of Eden in beauty
  and productiveness. I hope you have not only the fruits and flowers
  of paradise, but that you have in your homes that state of peace and
  blessedness which prevailed before our first mother took the apple.
  [Applause.] To these comrades I want to give a comrade's greeting. I
  know of no higher honor in this world than to be called "comrade" by
  the survivors of those who saved the Union, [Applause.]




FLORENCE, COLORADO, MAY 11.


The next stop was at Florence, in the oil district, whose citizens gave
the President a most cordial greeting. The Reception Committee comprised
Mayor Isaac Canfield, Senator J. A. McCandless, J. F. Collins, J. H.
McDaniel, Thomas Robinson, Thomas E. Spencer, Richard McDonald, W. J.
Daniels, and Joseph Patterson. An enthusiastic citizen proposed three
cheers "for the first President who has thought enough of us to come and
see us." They were given with a will, and the President responded as
follows:

  _My Fellow citizens_--I am very much obliged to you for this
  greeting. I expect there have been other Presidents who thought
  of you, though they have not visited you. This has been a very
  pleasant and instructive journey to me. I thought I had kept myself
  reasonably well informed of the capabilities of this country and of
  its productions, but I am amazed to find how things are put together.
  We come out of the snow where everything is barren and where labor
  is under ground, where the precious metals are being extracted, and
  there is nothing pleasant in the landscape except the snow covered
  mountains, and presently we are into a land of fruit, and have handed
  up to us great branches laden with well-set peach and pear, and are
  showered again, as we were in California, with the flowers of the
  early spring, and now, to my surprise, we seem to be in the oil
  region of Pennsylvania. These numerous derricks and oil lodes remind
  us of things about Oil City. Until I saw them I was not aware that
  you had here in Colorado oil production. It shows us how impartial,
  after all, the great Creator has been. He has given us everywhere
  possibilities which, if well improved, will make comfortable, happy
  homes. You have the metals, precious and common, and the coal that
  is needed for the smelter; oil to light your homes and lubricate
  your machinery, and these orchards and beautiful valleys, all in the
  right proximity. No man could have improved upon it. [Applause.] Our
  Government intends to have a careful and impartial consideration of
  all its people. We do not recognize classes or distinctions. We want
  everybody to be prosperous and happy, especially the working people.
  [Cheers.]

  I do not know how our institutions could endure unless we so
  conduct our public affairs and society that every man who is sober
  and industrious shall be able to make a good, comfortable living and
  lay something aside for old age or for evil days; to have hope in his
  heart and better prospects for his children. That is the strength
  of American institutions. Whatever promotes that I want to favor.
  Whatever tends to pauperize our people or impair the earning power of
  the laboring class I do not favor. [Cheers.]




PUEBLO, COLORADO, MAY 11.


An artillery salute welcomed the party to Pueblo at 3:30 P.M. Mayor W.
B. Hamilton, Col. M. H. Fitch, D. W. Barkley, Hon. I. W. Stanton, A.
McClelland, and O. H. P. Baxter comprised the committee that escorted
the President from Glenwood Springs. Arrived at the station the Chief
Executive was conveyed to the Court House Square by the following
Committee of Reception: E. C. Lyman, Paul Wilson, Benjamin Guggenheim,
D. L. Holden, E. R. Chew, Fred Betts, N. O. McClees, W. A. Moses, F.
E. Baldwin, A. S. Dwight, J. R. Flickenger, R. M. Stevenson, W. B.
McKinney, John Lockin, E. C. Billings, A. F. Ely, W. B. Palmer, J. S.
Johnston, N. E. Guyot, M. Studzinski, G. T. Nash, J. W. Purdy, P. F.
Sharp, S. A. Abbey, E. H. Martin, N. S. Walpole, T. J. Cribbs, J. G.
Keller, and C. C. Gaines. Upton Post, G. A. R., C. J. Long Commander,
and many other organizations participated in the parade.

At the Court House Square 6,000 children greeted the President, who was
introduced by Dr. William A. Olmsted and said:

  _Children of the Public Schools and Others_--I am glad to meet
  such an immense number here, and I can't allow this opportunity
  to pass without expressing to you my thanks for this whole-souled
  reception. It moves my heart to say that from your appearances you are
  well taught, not only in manners but in your intellectual pursuits;
  your bright, ruddy faces show health, and as you are living in this
  healthful place it speaks marvels for Pueblo. The country need fear
  no attack from foreign foes when such an army as you'll some day make
  would be called into action. You have your destiny all before you, and
  no one can tell but that some of these boys may be a President and
  these beautiful girls advise those who are born to fill high places
  in the Government. Children, I am pleased to see you, and will hold
  in dear remembrance this, my first visit to Pueblo--a city full of
  American genius and enterprise, which will hold its own and keep on
  apace with that progress characteristic of Americans. God bless you
  all. [Cheers.]

As Mrs. Harrison's carriage drew up the school children presented her
with a handsome painting--the "Colorado Columbine." The President then
visited the Colorado Mineral Palace, where President L. S. McLain and
Secretary Livezey of the Exposition presented him with specimens of rich
ore.

Colonel Stanton made the welcoming address and introduced President
Harrison to the great assemblage, who responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--The brief time which we are able
  in this hasty journey to allot to the city of Pueblo has now almost
  expired. It has given me pleasure to drive through the streets of
  this prosperous and enterprising municipality and to see that you
  are concentrating great business interests which must in the future
  make you a very important centre in this great State. You have in
  this State a variety of resources unexcelled, I think, by any other
  State. Your attention was very naturally first directed toward the
  precious metals, to the mining of gold and silver. The commoner ores
  were neglected. Your cities were mining camps. Nowhere in all our
  history has the American capacity for civil organization been so
  perfectly demonstrated as in the mining camps of the West. Coming
  here entirely beyond the range of civil institutions, where courts,
  sheriffs, and police officers could not give a hand to suppress the
  unruly at a time when our mining laws were unframed, these pioneer
  miners of California, Colorado, Nevada, Montana, and Idaho wrought out
  for themselves in their mining camps a system of government and mining
  laws that have received the approval of the State. [Cheers.] It was
  quite natural that interest should have been first directed toward the
  precious metals. You are coming to realize that the baser metals, as
  we call them, with which your great hills are stored are of great and
  more lasting value. [Cheers.] We passed this morning through a region
  where I was surprised to see orchards that reminded me of California.
  Now for all these things, for the beneficent influence under which you
  live, for that good law that has distributed this public domain freely
  to every man who desires to make a home for himself and family, for
  this free Government that extends its protection over the humblest as
  well as the mighty, for all these resources of sky and air and earth,
  the people of Colorado should be joyously thankful. [Cheers.] I am
  glad to hail you as fellow-citizens. I am glad for a moment to stand
  in the midst of you, to see your great capabilities, and to assure
  you that my best wishes are with you in the development of them all.
  [Cheers] I am glad to know that Colorado, this young Centennial State,
  has established a system of free public schools unexcelled by any
  State in the Union [Cheers.] But, my friends, as I said once before, I
  am in slavery to a railroad schedule, and time is up Good-by. [Cheers.]




COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO, MAY 11.


The presidential party arrived at Colorado Springs at 6 o'clock in the
evening and received the heartiest kind of a welcome. They were met at
the station by the Hon. Ira G. Sprague, Mayor of the city, at the head
of a large Committee of Reception, comprising the following prominent
citizens: Judge John Campbell, J. F. Seldomridge, J. H. Barlow, Irving
Howbert, J. W. Stillman, W. S. Jackson, B. F. Crowell, Col. Geo. De
La Vergne, Hon. W. F. Slocum, J. A. Hayes, Jr., E. Barnett, Geo. H.
Stewart, G. S. Barnes, W. A. Conant, W. L. Weed, H. C. McCreery, E. W.
Davis, D. Heron, W. R. Roby, C. H. White, C. E. Noble, B. W. Steele,
L. H. Gowdy, J. H. B. McFerran, D. M. Holden, W. S. Nichols, Dr. T. G.
Horn, Dr. W. A. Campbell, Thomas Hughes, J. P. Barnes, W. A. Roby, Dr.
B. P. Anderson, Judge J. B. Severy, T. A. McMorris, F. L. Martin, J. M.
Sellers, H. H. Stevens, J. A. Weir, Geo. W. Thorne, J. J. Hagerman, H.
C. Lowe, L. R. Ehrich, J. F. Pebbles, Charles Thurlow, A. Van Vechten,
E. S. Wooley, J. M. Ellison, C. C. Hoyt, Dr. W. M. Strickler, Dr. J. P.
Grannis, Dr. S. E. Solly, Judge William Harrison, W. H. Reed, Geo. F.
Whitney, E. A. Colburn, W. R. Barnes, Charles W. Collins, N. O. Johnson,
E. W. Giddings, P. C. Helm, C. E. Durkee, W. C. Stark, Matt Wilbur, C.
E. Stubbs, H. C. Fursman, J. H. Sinclair, L. P. Lowe, J. C. Woodbury, W.
H. Tilton, L. A. Pease, Thomas Barber, David McShane, H. A. Fuller, W.
A. Perkins, Fred Robinson, Geo. B. Perry, Count James Pourtales, W. B.
Faunce, E. M. Stedman, M. W. Everleth, Dr. O. Gillette, A. A. McGooney,
E. J. Eaton, Matt France, Henry L. B. Wills, H. S. Ervay, C. J.
Reynolds, Frank White, W. F. Anderson, Thomas Parrish, P. A. McCurdy, C.
B. Crowell, W. A. Otis, J. N. Bolton, H. A. Ferugson, H. Collbran, Geo.
P. Riplet, H. G. Lunt, T. H. Edsall, A. L. Lawton, W. H. D. Merrill, K.
H. Field, Dr. H. T. Cooper, A. J. Denton, H. I. Reid, C. W. Howbert, W.
H. Hoagland, J. W. D. Stovell, S. H. Kingsley, F. A. Mangold, Dr. T. C.
Kirkwood, Godfrey Kissell, Thomas Gough, V. Z. Reed, H. S. Van Petten,
T. S. Brigham, O. P. Hopkins, D. C. Dudley, E. R. Stark, A. S. Holbrook,
Milo Rowell, Charles Walker, Prof. J. E. Ray, W. S. Nichols, Thomas
Shideler, Leonard Jackson, L. C. Dana, L. E. Sherman, Samuel Bradford,
William Clark, F. E. Dow, Geo. P. Vaux, I. J. Woodworth, A. A. Williams,
W. D. Belden, W. H. Goshen, D. A. Russell, C. L. Gillingham, C. E.
Aiken, Dr. G. W. Lawrence, Geo. H. Parsons, Jehu Fields, Edward Ferris,
E. F. Clark, A. Sutton, Phil Strubel, F. A. Sperry, P. K. Pattison,
L. H. Gilbert, Prof. Wm. Strieby, Theo. Harrison, F. H. Morley, E. T.
Ensign, Wm. Lennox, W. H. McIntyre, J. E. Newton, John Hundley, Dr.
F. Hale, John Lennox, Wm. Bischoff, N. J. Davis, J. L. Clinton, J.
D. O'Haire, Dr. B. St. G. Tucker, E. S. Josleyn, Seth Baker, Joseph
Dozier, O. Roberts, J. E. Ray, J. Plumb, H. Hall, Dr. M. S. Smith, W. H.
Sanford, Lawrence Myers, S. N. Nye, John Potter, C. H. Burgess, L. G.
Goodspeed, J. Sumner, E. F. Rudy, Maj. O. Remick, E. S. Bumstead, G. C.
Hemenway, John Simmons, H. Halthusen, William Banning, Reuben Berrey,
A. H. Corman, F. D. Pastorious, J. L. Armit, Judson Bent, Rev. James B.
Gregg, Rev. A. R. Kieffer, Rev. R. Montague, Rev. H. H. Bell, Rev. J. P.
Lucas, Rev. M. D. Ormes, Rev. H. E. Warner, and Rev. M. Carrington.

The G. A. R. veterans comprised the presidential guard of honor during
the parade through the city. Civic organizations from Manitou, Colorado
City, Colfax, and Koener participated in the demonstration, which was
very fine and received the special commendation of President Harrison.

After the parade the Garfield School was visited, and the President
addressed the scholars as follows:

  You have very appropriately named this school in which you
  have gathered a portion of the children of Colorado Springs for
  instruction--Garfield. I understand another of your public schools
  is named after Abraham Lincoln. That, too, is a most appropriate
  designation; for where, in all the story of our country, among its
  men who have been illustrious in civil pursuits or in war, can two
  names be found which furnish more inspiration and hope to the youth
  of the land than the names of Lincoln and Garfield? [Applause.] Both
  men came of parentage so poor that no advantages attended their early
  years, and yet each by his own indomitable will, by the persevering
  improvement of the meagre opportunities they enjoyed, reached the
  highest place in our land, and are to-day embalmed in the affectionate
  recollection of their countrymen. I bid you all to read the lessons
  of these great lives, and to ponder them well, for while not all may
  achieve all they achieved, useful and honorable position may be
  achieved by you all. Wishing you every prosperity and success, I bid
  you good-by. [Cheers.]

At night the city was brilliantly illuminated. A public reception was
held at the Hotel Antlers. The President and his party were assisted
by Governor and Mrs. Routt and the Citizens' Committee. The welcoming
ceremonies took place before a great assemblage; Mayor Sprague made the
address.

The President, responding, said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I am sure you will crown the
  kindness which you have shown me to-day by permitting me to make my
  response to these words of welcome exceedingly brief. I have spoken
  four or five times to-day, and the chill of the evening will not allow
  me to exercise my voice with the accustomed immunity, but I cannot
  refrain from saying to you how much we have been pleased by the hasty
  glimpse we have been permitted to get of this beautiful city. The fame
  of Colorado Springs has spread throughout the entire East. I heard
  much of the beauty of its location, the grandeur and sublimity of
  these mountains that stand about bulwarked, as it is, like Jerusalem
  of old; of the health-giving atmosphere that fills this valley, of
  the marvellous springs, refreshing and life giving, which break out
  from your mountain sides; of these marvellous and weird products of
  time that stand in the Garden of the Gods--of all this I had heard.
  But, my countrymen, no spring that ever broke from mountain side, no
  bracing air that ever filled these valleys, was more refreshing and
  invigorating to the invalid or to the weary than your hearty greeting
  has been to us. [Cheers.]

  I visit your great State for the first time. When this journey has
  been completed only two of the States of the Union, and only its
  most distant Territory, will have escaped my personal inspection and
  observation. From Maine to California, from the northern line of
  Michigan, where it is washed by the waters of the Sault Ste. Marie,
  to the Savannah, I have traversed this broad land of ours, and out
  of all this journeying, out of all this mingling with our people, I
  have come to be a prouder and, I hope, a better American. We have
  a country whose diversity of climate, soil, and production makes
  it, in a degree not true of other people in the world, independent
  and self-contained. None of the necessaries of life, and few of its
  luxuries, would be denied to us if we were to limit ourselves to
  articles of American growth and production. [Cheers.] But better than
  all this, greater than our bulk, are those things that enter into and
  characterize the American social and political life. A distinguished
  Englishman journeying in this country not many years ago, speaking
  of his observations, rather caustically mentioned that the question
  most often propounded to him was whether he was not surprised by the
  great size of the country. He was a man of discernment, one who looked
  beneath the surface, who had learned to measure the mighty impulses
  which turn the current of human civilization, and rebuking this pride
  of bulk he said: Yes, it was a surprise, but greater still to him was
  the surprise that over 60,000,000 people could maintain and preserve
  under free republican institutions the social order and individual
  liberty which was maintained here; greater to him than bulk was the
  marvel that this great people could have survived and maintained
  its institutions under the terrible stress of the great Civil War;
  greater than all else to him was that unification of the people which
  seemed to follow that period of deadly strife. I rejoice to be with
  you to-night as an American citizen. I rejoice in the glory which the
  Centennial State has brought to the Union, and which will greatly
  increase. [Cheers.]




DENVER, COLORADO, MAY 12.


On his arrival at Denver, at 9:45 Tuesday morning, President Harrison
received an ovation. The tribute was a spontaneous, hearty one,
emphasized by the acclaim of 100,000 people. Governor Routt, ex-Senator
Tabor, ex-Senator Hill, and other distinguished citizens escorted the
presidential party from Glenwood Springs.

The Chief Executive was met at the Union Depot by the Hon. Platt Rogers,
Mayor of the city, and 200 prominent residents, comprising the Committee
of Reception, as follows: D. H. Moffat, I. B. Porter, C. E. Taylor,
Wolfe Londoner, J. E. Leet, Professor Haswell, S. H. Standart, W. S.
Cheesman, James Leonard, W. D. Todd, Adolph Zang, Phil. Bockfinger,
T. M. Patterson, C. S. Thomas, J. M. Berkey, M. J. McNamara, C. H.
Reynolds, J. D. McGilvray, H. N. Chittenden, J. A. Thatcher, J. S.
Wolfe, Dr. L. E. Lemen, Edward Eddy, Dr. Stedman, E. R. Barton, D.
Sheedy, H. B. Chamberlin, George Tritch, James Rice, Victor Elliott, E.
Monash, Thomas E. Poole, W. J. Barker, J. T. Cornforth, J. K. Mullen,
E. B. Light, Fine P. Ernest, Colonel Dodge, Donald Fletcher, W. G.
Fisher, A. C. Fisk, M. Hallett, F. A. Meredith, Charles B. Kountz, I.
E. Blake, Dr. Dennison, W. H. James, C. M. Kittredge, Joseph H. Smith,
William Stapleton, J. C. Helm, S. T. Smith, P. J. Flynn, Isaac Brinker,
Judge Rising, Frank Bishop, Supervisor Anderson, J. W. Roberts, Herman
Strauss, J. H. Brown, A. B. McKinley, W. J. Barker, H. P. Steele,
Lafe Pence, George F. Batchelder, Rev. J. M. Freeman, John Arkins,
ex-Governor Grant, J. M. Lawrence, J. J. Joslin, F. J. V. Skiff, W.
S. Decker, John Corcoran, W. B. Felker, F. B. Hill, J. D. Best, John
Riethmann, Thomas Hayden, Anthony Sweeney, ex-Governor Cooper, Charles
D. Cobb, John Evans, William Scott Lee, Peter Magnes, Dr. Bancroft, E.
F. Hallack, R. H. McMann, S. L. Holzman, H. R. Wolcott, J. S. Brown,
M. B. Carpenter, Joseph Cresswell, R. W. Woodbury, E. M. Ashley, J. S.
Appel, E. L. Scholtz, Dennis Sullivan, Samuel Elbert, G. W. Clayton,
J. C. Montgomery, G. C. De Bronkart, Louis Mack, C. S. Morey, George
E. Randolph, William Barth, T. S. McMurray, J. E. Bates, C. F. Wilson,
Rev. Myron W. Reed, Dr. Graham, J. L. McNeill, W. H. Bush, G. G. Symes,
Rodney Curtis, J. W. Nesmith, O. E. Le Fevre, Judge Furman, H. J. Adams,
J. C. Twombly, Judge Graham, F. Rinne, Supervisor Slack, Gen. W. A.
Hamill, H. P. Parmelee, General Dunn, J. H. Poole, George Raymond, J.
W. Hampton, Henri Foster, W. C. Lothrop, James H. Blood, E. W. Merritt,
Wm. Harris, General Humphrey, Daniel Ryan, R. S. Roe, R. W. Speer, C. S.
Lee, Jos. Milner, J. A. McDonald, Judge Bentley, M. Currigan, M. D. Van
Horn, Fred Walsen, Dr. H. K. Steele, Assyria Hall, A. P. Rittenhouse,
Richard Sopris, F. C. Goudy, C. H. Hackley, Isaac N. Stevens, Thomas
Croke, J. P. Ewing, George C. Manly, J. T. Adams, George Ady, D. W.
Hart, Judge Alvin Marsh, C. D. Titus, Supervisor Chase, Otto Mears, H.
Solomon, D. F. Carmichael, Amos Steck, E. S. Chapman, W. B. Hanscome,
R. A. Gurley, C. H. Sage, Rev. Dr. Tupper, Henry Apple, Herbert George,
W. H. Firth, Egbert Johnson, F. E. Edbrooke, S. K. Hooper, Thos. G.
Anderson, A. D. Shepard, J. S. McGilvray, E. L. Fox, D. C. Packard, O.
Whittemore, David May, Ralph Voorhees, Senator Cochrane, J. M. Daily,
Col. C. J. Clark, H. L. Morris, Rev. Father Malone, Dr. Blickensderfer,
J. M. Downing, C. M. Hampson, Thomas Nicholas, Judge Miller, Jerome
Riche, J. D. McGilvray, W. H. Milburn, F. H. Kreuger, L. H. Guldman, W.
N. Byers, William M. Bliss, George H. Graham, Lewis Price, Jay Cook,
Jr., C. S. Prowitt, S. C. Shepard, O. Carstarphen, Captain J. T. Smith,
and Hugh Butler.

The parade was an imposing and brilliant spectacle, in charge of Chief
Marshal A. H. Jones, assisted by Gen. E. K. Stimson, Chief of Staff,
and the following aides: John C. Kennedy, Adjutant-General of Colorado;
Benjamin F. Klee, E. J. Brooke, W. H. Conley, John A. McBeth, W. Y.
Sedam, N. G. Dunn, George Ady, Thomas R. Scott, John Corcoran, B. A.
Harbour, Thomas Baldwin, G. G. Symes, S. A. Shepard, and Robert R.
Wright. Over 1,000 G. A. R. comrades were in line, led by George W.
Cook, and several hundred Sons of Veterans, commanded by Col. C. H.
Anderson. The President's carriage, drawn by six white horses, was
escorted by Lieut. Col. A. W. Hogle and staff. Countless thousands
thronged the streets along the route of the procession. As the column
passed the High School 10,000 scholars and children gave the President
and Mrs. Harrison an enthusiastic greeting. A vast assemblage awaited
the President's arrival at the reviewing stand, where he was met by the
Colorado Pioneers, led by Maj. William Wise. Governor Routt delivered an
eloquent address of welcome, followed by Mayor Rogers, who portrayed
the triumphant struggle and growth of Denver. President Harrison
responded as follows:

  _Governor Routt, Mr. Mayor, Pioneers of Colorado, Comrades of the
  Grand Army_ [cheers] _and Fellow-citizens_--This scene is inspiring.
  This beautiful city, the fame of which your journeying citizens
  have not failed to carry to the far East [laughter and cheers], has
  become known to me as we can know by the hearing of the ear; and I am
  rejoiced to add to my pleasant impressions of Colorado, and of its
  commercial and political capital, that which is in sight of the eye,
  which has but deepened and enlarged the favorable impressions which
  I brought to your State. It is a marvellous thing that all we see
  here is in a State whose existence dates from the dawn of the second
  century of our national life. What a tremendous testimony to the
  organizing power and energy of the American people this great State
  is! That these wastes, so unpromising to the eye in that early time,
  should have been invaded by the restless energy of indomitable men;
  that they should have seen in visions that which was to follow their
  heroic labor for the development of these hidden resources; that no
  drought or drifting sand, no threat of mountain nor of sky, could turn
  back these brave-hearted men who had set their faces to pierce and
  uncover the hidden riches of these mountains. The pioneers of Colorado
  are worthy of honor. Those who have entered into their labors, who
  have come not toilsomely but on swift and easy wings into the heritage
  that they have opened, should, always and everywhere, gratefully
  acknowledge the services of those who made this easy pathway for their
  feet. [Cheers.]

  Your State is blessed in the diversity of its resources. You do not
  depend on any one of the great industries of civilized life. You have
  taken from your mines immense stores of the precious metals, but when
  these are gone or their supply is diminished you will turn your eyes
  toward those metals that we call base, but that after all enter in
  so many ways into human life that they supply more enduring and in
  the end more profitable industries. Your iron, and coal, and lead,
  and building stone will be sources of income inexhaustible. These
  valleys, touched by the magical power of irrigation, will yield to
  your population abundant food, and you will yet have within yourselves
  that happy commercial condition of a State producing and exchanging
  within its own limits nearly all the necessaries of life. [Cheers.]
  Transportation is always a burden. The industrial condition is always
  best when the producers and the consumers are near together.

  I am glad to know that you have not been so busy in delving into
  the earth; that you have not so turned your minds to the precious
  metal as to have forgotten that there is a blue sky above you; that
  there are aspirations, and hopes, and glories that are greater than
  all material things. [Cheers.] You have not failed to make sure that
  the children, the blessed children of your homes, that are now coming
  on, are made secure in the possession of a well-ordered and of a
  well-endowed school system. [Cheers.] What a testimony it is to the
  American character that, however intense the push for the things of
  this life, however eager the pursuit of gain, you can never assemble a
  community of 200 people that they do not begin to organize schools for
  the children. [Cheers.] These common schools are not simply nurseries
  of intellectual training; they are nurseries of citizenship. [Cheers.]

  It has been a most happy sight to see the same old banner that we
  bore into the smoke of battle and carried over dying comrades to
  place it in triumph on the ramparts of the enemy now in the hands of
  the children of Colorado. [Cheers.] Proof has been made a thousand
  times--proof will be made whenever the occasion requires--that, as
  much as we pursue gain and personal ends, we have nothing--property or
  life--that we do not freely lay down upon the altar of our country for
  the general good. [Cheers.] But, my fellow-citizens, this assemblage
  is too vast, and the demand upon my time for public speech has been
  too protracted, to enable me to pursue these remarks further.

  Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, survivors of the
  great war whose success preserved all that our fathers had devised
  and established, whose success brought back this flag in honor and
  established it again the undisputed emblem of an indissoluble Union
  [cheers], God has bountifully lengthened out your days that you might
  catch some glimpse of the glory that has come from the achievements in
  which you bore an honorable part. But only the vision of the prophet
  reaching out over centuries to come can catch the full glory of
  what your deeds have wrought. I give you to-day a most affectionate
  greeting [cheers]; I give you a regretful good-by. May you hold in
  the community where you live that respect and honor to which you are
  entitled. Let no Grand Army man ever dishonor in civil life the noble
  record he made in war. May every blessing follow you, and if it shall
  not be in God's dispensation to give you riches, at least, comrades,
  you shall die with the glorious satisfaction of having contributed to
  the greatest work that man ever wrought for humanity and good; and,
  wrapped in the flag you followed, your comrades will, one by one, see
  that in honored graves your bodies rest until the resurrection, and
  that on each returning day of decoration flowers are strewn upon your
  graves.

  Citizens of Denver, I cannot close without expressing the great
  satisfaction and surprise with which I have witnessed this morning the
  magnificent commercial developments which have been made here. These
  streets, these towering, substantial, and stately houses in which your
  commerce is transacted, place you in the front rank of enterprise. I
  do not think any city so young can claim so high a place. [Cheers.]
  I thank you very sincerely for a demonstration which I cannot accept
  as personal--all this is too great for any man--but as a spontaneous
  tribute to our free institutions. I accept this as an evidence that in
  all essential things we are one people. The fuller revelation of that
  fact to us all has been worth all the labor and time we have mutually
  expended in this long journey. In all essential things we are one; we
  divide and strive and debate, but we are patriotic American citizens,
  having a love for the Constitution and the flag that brings us all
  at last to submit our opinion to the lawfully expressed wish of the
  majority. [Cheers.]

  And now again good-by. I shall leave behind me every good wish
  for your prosperity, individually as a municipality and as a State.
  [Cheers.]

After a drive over Capitol Hill the President and the gentlemen of his
party were the guests of W. H. Bush at the Hotel Metropole. Senator
Teller presided at luncheon.

Responding to a toast in honor of the President of the United States,
General Harrison said:

  _Gentlemen_--I cannot fail to respond to such a toast. Indeed, I
  should be unkind to you and to myself as well if I did not. However,
  I cannot speak at length in thanking you for the gracious hospitality
  I have received in Denver. I can truly say my visit has culminated
  in Denver. For pleasure during my stay here, for perfection in
  arrangement, for cordiality, and all things which go to make a stop
  pleasant, Denver has given a climax of enjoyment.

  It has given me great pleasure to take note of some of the things
  which have made this beautiful city here and its recent and massive
  developments a wonder to the civilization of to-day. I am apt to judge
  the city by the home. That is with me the test, more than the business
  buildings, the manufactories, etc. It gives me great pleasure to
  state that in all my travels, and they have included all the States
  but two, I have never seen a city with such elegant homes as here.
  [Cheers.] I am sure, when you have worked out your silver mines and
  the more common products, stone and granite, you will have that which
  will last you for an indefinite time, and which will also add to the
  beauty of your already beautiful city. [Cheers.]

  I have the pleasure of testifying to the satisfaction with which the
  party has spent these few days in the Centennial State. I hope I may
  have the pleasure of being with you again at some near future time.

  I say good-by, and again express our thanks for your hospitality,
  which has been excelled nowhere on our journey. [Cheers.]




AKRON, COLORADO, MAY 12.


The President made his farewell Colorado speech at Akron at 9 o'clock
at night. The Reception Committee consisted of Hon. D. W. Irwin, R.
S. Langley, and J. M. Aitkin. Upward of 3,000 people welcomed the
distinguished travellers. Colonel Griffith and Gen. L. C. Colby,
Commander Nebraska State Guards, joined the party at Akron as the
representatives of Governor John M. Thayer.

Commander John N. Tague, of Akron Post, G. A. R., introduced President
Harrison, who said:

  _My Friends_--It is very kind of you to gather here to-night as
  we pass by. We have had a very pleasant trip. Our interest in your
  State and our appreciation of its great resources have been very much
  increased on this visit. I am glad to find--indeed, I knew I should
  find--the same people here that we have in Illinois, Indiana, and
  Ohio. Most of you come from some of those States, and you are not new
  people. I have been very much pleased to notice that here, as well as
  in the East, you take deep interest in schools and in all those things
  that tend to elevate a community and to set social order on a firm and
  secure basis. Allow me to thank you again, and to bid you good-night.
  [Cheers.]




HASTINGS, NEBRASKA, MAY 13.


Hastings, Nebraska's third city, was reached at 6:30 the morning of
the 13th, and notwithstanding the early hour fully 10,000 people were
present to welcome the President. The Reception Committee consisted of
Mayor A. L. Clarke, Hon. John M. Ragan, C. H. Dietrich, Judge W. R.
Burton, F. H. Firman, W. M. Kerr, General Dilworth, J. J. Buchanan, R.
A. Batty, James B. Heartwell, A. F. Powers, A. V. Cole, M. Van Fleet,
Dr. Johnson, Dr. J. E. Hilts, A. H. Brown, Dr. Cook, R. B. Wahlquist,
and C. Cameron.

J. N. Clarke delivered the address of welcome and introduced President
Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-countrymen_--There is a freshness and a beauty about
  the Nebraska prairies, but I hope I will not fall in your esteem
  if I say I do not like to get up early. [Shouts, "Neither do we!"]
  Occasionally, in our trip, we seem to pick up an hour. When I retired
  at Denver last night, at none too early an hour, I was told that we
  would be at Hastings at 6:30. But we arrived here, it seems to me, at
  5:20 by the time I went to bed by last night; but, my friends, all
  these things that make labor of travel are as nothing compared with
  the great gratification we find in such assemblages as this.

  As we journeyed eastward we have seen the arid land where the
  water ran in ditches and did not fall in showers. That system has
  its advantages and its disadvantages, but I must confess that it
  seems more homelike for me to get back to the land where the showers
  fall and everything is fresh and green. This diversity of natural
  conditions and of agricultural and mineral wealth makes the greatness
  of our country. Diversity is found everywhere in nature, and it is
  a happy thing. It is found in the field and crop, but never in the
  people--any observing man can see that we are one people. [Cheers.]
  The people I saw in California, in Arizona, and all along our journey,
  were just such people as I see here; indeed, they were in a strict
  sense the same people, because they are Yankees, Pennsylvanians,
  Wisconsin men, Hoosiers, and Buckeyes--I think the Ohio man must be
  here. [Several responses of "Here we are!"]

  The Westerners are the overspill of the enterprising population
  of the East. They kept going a little farther west, still a little
  farther, until at last they touched the Pacific; and so anywhere the
  traveller may go, if he will make himself known, the hands of old
  neighbors will be stretched out to him. Out of all this comes the love
  for the one flag, and I am glad to say that we have not passed any
  little way station--even in Arizona, where a few scores had gathered
  from distant ranches--but some one with an American flag was there and
  American cheers for that flag. Sometimes the incidents were almost
  pathetic. At one little station in Arizona, as we drew up in the
  darkness, there were half a dozen ranchers on the platform. I noticed
  on the lapels of two or three coats the Grand Army button. One of them
  shouted, "There are but few of us, but let us give a cheer for the old
  flag, boys!" [Cheers.]

  I thank you most cordially for your gathering here. I do not know
  whether it is prejudice or not, but anyway I always have a very high
  opinion of a State whose chief production is corn. [Laughter and
  applause.]




CRETE, NEBRASKA, MAY 13.


At Crete the President received a musical welcome. Nedela's band
rendered "America," and over 2,000 voices joined in the chorus. It was
a beautiful tribute to patriotism. Governor Thayer, accompanied by
Lieut. Gov. T. J. Majors, Secretary of State J. C. Allen, Auditor T. H.
Benton, Treasurer J. E. Hill, Atty. Gen. Geo. H. Hastings, Adjt. Gen. A.
V. Cole, Commissioner A. R. Humphry, and Col. H. E. Palmer, came down
from Lincoln and met the President's party at Crete. The local Reception
Committee consisted of Mayor Norris, ex-Governor Dawes, S. L. Andrews,
Capt. John Sherrill, and H. M. Wells.

Governor Thayer introduced the President, who said:

  _My Friends_--It appears sometimes in the heat of political
  campaigns that the American people do not agree upon anything; but
  after it is all over we take a broader survey of things and we find
  that underneath all these divisions is the bed rock of patriotism. In
  that at least we have a common purpose.

  I am glad to see these children here this morning. They have greeted
  me everywhere with their happy smiles, and they brighten the way
  quite as much as the flowers that have been given us. It is pleasant
  to know that in these pioneer countries you are establishing common
  schools in order that the generation which is coming on may have a
  better chance than you had. I do not know of anything better than the
  father and mother working and striving that their children may have an
  easier and better chance in life than they had. I am very glad to see
  you all this morning, and thank you for your cordial welcome. [Cheers.]




LINCOLN, NEBRASKA, MAY 13


The capital of Nebraska was reached at 9 o'clock in the morning and the
Lincolnites gave the President a warm greeting. The State officials,
with Mayor Weir and the following prominent citizens, comprised the
Committee of Reception: Maj. H. C. McArthur, Charles H. Gere, E. E.
Brown, N. S. Harwood, C. M. Parker, C. E. Montgomery, S. S. Royce, A.
H. Weir, J. B. Archibald, W. E. Churchill, Alva Brown, John D. Wright,
Phelps Paine, J. B. Strode, C. H. Gould, Joseph Teeters, J. J. Imhoff,
John H. McClay, D. W. Mosely, J. H. McMurtry, Professor Bessey, and
Alva Kennard. During the march to the Capitol grounds the President was
escorted by the veterans of Farragut Post, Martin Howe Commander, and
Appomattox Post, C. W. Lyman Commander. Governor Thayer and Mayor Weir
each delivered an address welcoming the President to Nebraska and to
Lincoln.

President Harrison responded:

  _Governor Thayer and Mr. Mayor_--It will, I think, be entirely
  impossible for me to make myself heard by this vast assemblage,
  situated as you are here this morning. Our stay with you is
  necessarily brief, and yet I do not want you to feel that we have
  discriminated against the political capital of one of the very
  greatest of the newer States. I have been so pressed with the
  engagements which have been suggested to us that I have only been able
  to give three-quarters of an hour to Indianapolis, my own home. I have
  given you the same, and I had hoped, very much, that this time could
  be extended and that I would be able to address you with more comfort
  to myself and to you.

  We are here as American citizens, for common hope and love; we are
  here the friends of the flag, of the Constitution, of social order,
  of every school, of all that characterizes this Nation and makes it
  better than any other nation in the world.

  I thank you, most cordially thank you, for this magnificent
  demonstration. It has but one fault, and that is it is altogether too
  large to be suitably arranged with a view to public speaking.

  I hope you will allow me again to thank you very sincerely for your
  most cordial and magnificent welcome, and wish for you and your State
  all prosperity and for the country of which we are common citizens a
  career of unchecked glory. [Cheers.]

As the President was about to depart he was met by a committee
representing the Nebraska Travelling Men's Association, consisting of
President Fred A. Wilson, Secretary R. M. Simons, and Capt. J. S. Agey,
who presented him with an address of welcome printed on satin in gold.
In accepting the souvenir the President said:

  Convey my thanks to the travelling men, for whom I entertain the
  kindest regard. I remember them in the last campaign, and shall always
  be thankful for the favors extended. I noticed your body in the
  parade, and have never seen a finer representation of the fraternity.
  [Renewed cheering.]




ASHLAND, NEBRASKA, MAY 13.


About 2,000 people greeted the President at Ashland. The school children
were assembled at the station under Superintendent Crabtree. Mayor J. C.
Railsback, H. H. Shedd, S. G. Bryan, Col. J. K. Clarke, R. E. Butler,
C. N. Folsom, M. Newman, W. T. Spere, J. H. Snell, J. H. Oliver, J. W.
Moon, and S. B. Hall, Commander of Bob McCook Post, G. A. R., welcomed
the President, who made a brief address, as follows:

  _My Friends_--I am very much obliged to you for your cordial
  welcome. We pause but for a moment, and it will not be possible for me
  to make a speech. You are talking yourselves, and I am sure in very
  high tones of patriotism, by your display of the national colors in
  your own hands and in the hands of the school children, and by this
  welcome to one who for the time is placed at the head of the national
  Government. I have not accepted what I have seen on this trip as
  personal; it is too much for any man. I accept it as the expression of
  our people for the love of our flag and for the institutions which it
  symbolizes. [Cheers.]




OMAHA, NEBRASKA, MAY 13.


President Harrison arrived at Omaha Wednesday noon and was accorded a
reception that in numbers and enthusiasm was scarcely surpassed during
the entire trip. He was met at Lincoln by an escort committee consisting
of Senator Charles F. Manderson, Senator A. S. Paddock, Hon. J. C.
Cowin, ex-Gov. R. B. Furnas, Maj. D. H. Wheeler, Judge J. M. Thurston,
G. W. Willard, W. V. Morse, D. J. O'Donohue, B. B. Wood, Dr. G. L.
Miller, C. Hartman, Maj. T. S. Clarkson, C. J. Greene, A. J. Poppleton,
Hon. J. E. Boyd, J. H. Millard, Thomas Swobe, A. P. Hopkins, Max Meyer,
W. F. Bechel, and T. J. Lowry.

Arrived at the station the President and his party were met and
welcomed by Mayor R. C. Cushing at the head of the following committee
of prominent citizens: Hon. E. S. Dundy, E. Wakely, T. J. Mahoney,
Dr. J. E. Summers, L. Berka, W. J. Broatch, Fred Metz, T. L. Kimball,
G. M. Hitchcock, J. A. Creighton, J. F. Coad, C. V. Gallagher, Herman
Kountze, W. A. Paxton, C. S. Chase, G. W. Lininger, Lee Hartley, Amos
Field, H. G. Burt, G. W. Holdrege, J. E. Kinney, Edward Rosewater, M.
V. Gannon, W. A. L. Gibbon, Henry Pundt, J. B. Furay, J. T. Clarke, E.
A. Cudahy, J. O. Phillippi, F. P. Hanlon, B. S. Baker, John Peters, W.
H. Alexander, Brad Slaughter, W. N. Nason, Euclid Martin, Henry Yates,
J. L. McCague, J. A. Wakefield, C. L. Chaffee, Julius Meyer, C. E.
Burmester, L. R. Rosaker, James Stephenson, J. M. Woolworth, Charles
Ogden, J. S. Webster, Col. Dudley Evans, Richard Smith, L. D. Fowler,
G. M. Nattinger, J. W. Eller, Simon Bloom, H. H. Benson, Capt. R. S.
Wilcox, S. Adamsky, J. A. Cusadore, O. G. Decker, Charles L. Thomas, M.
J. Feenan, Frank Moores, General Brooke and staff, and the following
city officials: C. S. Goodrich, John Rush, Lee Helsley, W. S. Shoemaker,
Silas Cobb, John Groves, Geo. W. Tillson, P. W. Birkhauser, Geo. C.
Whitlock, Geo. L. Dennis, A. B. Howatt, Clark Gapan, J. J. Galligan,
Wilber S. Seavey, James Flannery, H. L. Rammacciotti, James Gilbert,
Thomas J. McLean, J. H. Standeven, Thomas Riley, Thomas Bermingham, Fred
Hickstein, Peter A. Welch, and Frank R. Morrisey.

The ladies on the Reception Committee were Mrs. Alvin Saunders, Mrs.
General Brooke, Mrs. General Wheaton, Mrs. Judge Dundy, Mrs. Clark
Woodman, Mrs. H. W. Yates, Mrs. E. Rosewater, Mrs. S. S. Caldwell, and
Mrs. Geo. M. O'Brien.

An imposing procession, conducted by Chief Marshal C. F. Weller,
assisted by Jacob Fawcett and Capt. Geo. Porter, escorted the
presidential party to the pavilion near the Court House, from whence
the President reviewed the column, headed by the Second Regiment U.S.
Infantry. General Frederick, Col. M. V. Sheridan, Colonel Turson,
General Mulcahy, Captain Morseman, Major Potwin, Colonel Curtis, Colonel
Strong, Captain Richardson, Captain Rhodes, Captain Stickle, Major
Luddington, Lieutenant Jensen, Lieutenant Korty, and other members of
the Loyal Legion, awaited the Commander-in-Chief at the pavilion, around
which a vast concourse assembled. Mayor Cushing made the welcoming
address.

When the demonstration subsided President Harrison responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I can accept without question
  and with very deep gratitude these cordial words of welcome which
  you have spoken on behalf of the people of this great city. Twice
  before it has been my pleasure to spend a brief time in this great
  commercial metropolis of the great Valley of the Missouri. I have had
  opportunity, therefore, to witness the rapid development which your
  city has made. I recollect it as I saw it in 1881, and as I see it
  to-day I feel that I need to be told where I am. [Applause and cheers.]

  These magnificent structures dedicated to commerce, these
  magnificent churches lifting their spires toward the heavens, these
  many school-houses consecrated to the training of those who shall
  presently stand in our places to be responsible for these our public
  institutions, these great stock-yards, where the meat product of the
  great meat-producing States of the Missouri Valley is prepared for
  market, and, above all and crowning all, these thousands of happy,
  comfortable homes which characterize and constitute your great city
  are a marvel and tribute to the enterprise and power of development of
  the American people, unsurpassed, I think, by any city in the United
  States. [Cheers.]

  As I turn my face now toward Washington, as I hasten on to take up
  public duties partially laid aside during this journey, I rejoice to
  receive here in Omaha that same kindly greeting with which we were
  welcomed as we journeyed from Washington through the South to the
  Pacific. If anything were needed to call for a perfect surrender
  of all personal thought in an absolute consecration of public duty
  to the general good of all our people, I have found it in these
  magnificent demonstrations. [Cheers.] We shall always have parties--it
  is characteristic of free people--we need to have party divisions,
  debate, and political contention; but it is pleasant to observe in all
  this journey we have taken how large a stock of common patriotism we
  find in all the people. [Cheers.]

  You have here in Nebraska a State of magnificent capabilities. I
  have seen the orange grove, and all those fruits which enrich and
  characterize the State of California. I have seen Leadville, the
  summit city, these mining camps upon the peaks where men are delving
  into the earth to bring out the riches stored there, but I return
  again to the land of the cornstalk with an affection that I cannot
  describe. [Cheers.]

  I am sure these friends who have delighted us with the visions
  of loveliness and prosperity will excuse me if my birth and early
  training in Ohio and Indiana leads me to the conclusion that the
  States that raise corn are the greatest States in the world. [Cheers.]

  We have a surplus production in these great valleys for which we
  must seek foreign markets. It is pleasant to know that 90 per cent.
  or more of our agricultural productions are consumed by our own
  people. I do not know how soon it may be that we shall cease to be
  dependent upon any foreign market for our farm products. With the
  rapid development which is being made in manufacturing pursuits, with
  the limitation which the rapid occupation of our public domain now
  brings to our minds as to the increase of agriculture, it cannot be a
  very distant day when the farmer shall realize the ideal condition and
  find a market out of his own farm wagon for what he produces.

  It has been a source of constant thought and zealous effort on the
  part of the Administration at Washington to secure larger foreign
  markets for our farm products. I rejoice that in the last two years
  some of those obstructions which hindered the free access of our
  meat products to American markets have been removed. I rejoice to
  know that we have now freer, larger access for our meats to the
  markets of England and of Europe than we have had in many years.
  [Applause.] I rejoice to know that this has brought better prices to
  the stock-raisers of these great western valleys. I believe, under the
  provision looking to reciprocal trade in the law of the last Congress,
  that we shall open yet larger and nearer markets for the products of
  Nebraska farmers. [Cheers.] So distant as you are from the Atlantic
  seaboard, it may have seemed to you that your interest in the revival
  of our trade, in the re-establishment of an American merchant marine,
  was not perceptible or direct.

  Not long since an inquiry was made as to the origin of the freight
  that was carried by one of the Brazilian steamers from the port of New
  York, and it was found that twenty-five States had made contribution
  to that cargo, and among those States was the State of Nebraska.
  [Cheers.] And so by such methods as we can it is our purpose to
  enlarge our foreign markets for the surplus productions of our great
  country. And we hope--and we think this hope fills the great West as
  well as the East--that when this increased traffic and commerce is
  found upon the sea it shall be carried in American bottoms. [Cheers.]

  A few days ago, sailing in the harbor of San Francisco, I saw three
  great deep-water ships enter the Golden Gate. One carried the flag of
  Hawaii and two the British flag, and at Portland they took the pains
  to tow up from the lower harbor and to deck in bunting an American
  ship that was lying in the harbor. It was a curious sight--one they
  thought important to exhibit to strangers visiting that city. Why,
  my countrymen, I hope the day is not far distant when the sight of
  great American ships flying the Stars and Stripes at the fore will be
  familiar not only in our own ports, but in every busy mart of commerce
  the world around. [Cheers.]

  This Government of ours cannot do everything for everybody. The
  theory of our Government is large individual liberty. It is that we
  shall take out of the way all legislative obstructions to the free and
  honest pursuit of all human industries; that each individual shall in
  his own place have the best chance possible to develop the highest
  prosperity for himself and his family.

  Some functions are lodged with our Government. It must provide a
  currency for the use of our people, for I believe the time has gone
  by when we will be content to return to the old system of an issue
  of money by State banks. But I will not discuss such questions. I
  only desire to say this--which is common ground upon which we can all
  stand--that whatever money the Government issues, paper or coin, must
  be good money. [Cheers.]

  I have an idea that every dollar we issue should be as good as any
  dollar we issue, for, my countrymen, whenever we have any money, paper
  or coin, the first errand that dollar does is to pay some workingman
  for his daily toil. No one so much as the laboring man and the farmer
  requires a full value dollar of permanent value the year around.
  [Cheers.]

  But, my countrymen, I had not intended to speak so long. I hope
  I have not intruded upon any ground of division. I am talking, not
  as a partisan, but as an American citizen, desiring by every method
  to enhance the prosperity of all our people; to have this great
  Government in all that it undertakes touch with beneficence and equal
  hands the pursuits of the rich and of the poor. [Cheers.] Nothing
  has been so impressive in all this journey as the magnificent spirit
  of patriotism which pervades our people. I have seen enough American
  flags to wrap the world around. [Great applause and cheers.]

  The school children have waved it joyously to us, and many a time
  in some lonesome country home on the bleak sand I have seen a man or
  woman or a little boy come to the door of a cabin as we hurried by
  waving the starry banner in greeting to our train. I am sure, as your
  Mayor has said, that this same magnificent, patriotic, American spirit
  pervades you all here to-day.

  God bless you all; prosper you in every endeavor; give glory and
  increase to your city, and settle all its institutions upon a secure
  basis of social order and obedience to the law. [Great cheering.]


_At the High-School Grounds._

On concluding the formal reception the President and his party became
the guests of Hon. E. Rosewater, editor and proprietor of the Omaha
_Daily Bee_, and after inspecting the editorial rooms the President held
a reception in the rotunda of the _Bee_ building. This was followed
by a ride over the city, escorted by the Reception Committee. As the
_cortége_ passed the High-School grounds 20,000 children and adults gave
the President a most patriotic greeting.

Halting in front of the building, the President arose in his carriage
and said:

  It gives me great pleasure to receive this cordial greeting from
  the teachers and pupils of the Omaha public schools. The most
  pleasant features of this journey have been the beautiful and cordial
  receptions given us by the school children. I am pleased to notice the
  magnificent system of schools you have here in Omaha--part of a system
  that had its origin in New England and now extends over this entire
  country, the mainstay of this great Government. A number of years ago
  I was standing upon the banks of the headwaters of the Missouri River,
  where its waters are pure and limpid, but after passing through the
  bad lands of Dakota the waters of the mighty river become contaminated
  and impure, as you see it rolling by your beautiful city. Let me hope
  that none of you, my little friends, will ever become tainted by
  contact with the bad lands of experience as you journey through life
  on to manhood and womanhood. God bless you all; good-by.

At the conclusion of these remarks General Harrison was apprised that
a mistake had been made in halting at the entrance, as the children
were unable to either hear or see him. Upon learning this the President
immediately alighted and made his way with some difficulty to the
platform, where he addressed the children, saying:

  _My Little Friends_--You do not feel half as badly as I do at the
  thought that I made my speech intended for you to your papas and
  mammas. I have not the time to attempt to repeat it, but I can't get
  away without telling you of the affectionate interest I have in all
  the children of this great country. Bless you--you are the blossoms of
  our homes. With a good-by and another God bless you I am off. [Great
  cheering.]




COUNCIL BLUFFS, IOWA, MAY 13.


A short stop was made at Council Bluffs, where several thousand people
greeted the party. Owing to the brief time allowed by the schedule no
committees were appointed, but the veterans of Abe Lincoln Post, G. A.
R., Dr. F. S. Thomas Commander, greeted the party. Hon. Joseph R. Reed
made a brief welcoming address.

The President, responding, said:

  _My Friends_--It gives me great pleasure to thank you for this
  cordial greeting as we cross the river. I was not anticipating a
  meeting here or any call for an address. I see about me some of my old
  comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and I want to give them a
  comrade's greeting. I have seen them everywhere; even out on the sands
  of Arizona I found them gathered together, and it has always been a
  pleasure to meet them. [Cheers.]




SHENANDOAH, IOWA, MAY 13.


The town of Shenandoah was illuminated in honor of the President's
visit. The travellers were welcomed by Mayor H. S. Nichols, Hon.
Benjamin Todd, C. M. Conway, W. H. Harrison, R. W. Morse, C. S. Keenan,
Capt. C. V. Mount, and the veterans of Burnside Post, G. A. R.,
commanded by C. P. Coleneous.

The President, responding to cheers from the large crowd, said:

  _My Friends_--It gives me great pleasure to see you and to receive
  from you this hearty greeting. Our schedule is so close that we can
  tarry only a moment with you, and therefore I can only say thank you
  and good-by. [Cheers.]




MARYVILLE, MISSOURI, MAY 13.


It was 11 P.M. when the train made its first stop in Missouri, at
Maryville, where an unusually large crowd greeted the President.
The welcoming committee consisted of Judge Lafayette Dawson, Ira K.
Alderman, James Todd, W. C. Pierce, H. E. Robinson, and Lyman Parcher.

When the cheering subsided President Harrison said:

  _My Friends_--This multitude is a great surprise. I have already
  spoken six or seven times to-day, and am very much fatigued, so that
  I shall not attempt to speak. Indeed, my time is so close that I can
  tarry but a moment. But I would be untrue to myself if I did not
  acknowledge this most magnificent demonstration. I thank you most
  sincerely for your kindness and bid you good-night.




HANNIBAL, MISSOURI, MAY 14.


About the earliest reception on the great journey occurred at Hannibal,
which was reached at 5:30 the morning of the 14th. Notwithstanding
the hour, 5,000 people gave the President an enthusiastic welcome.
Secretary Rusk and Postmaster-General Wanamaker appeared on the platform
with General Harrison. The Reception Committee comprised Capt. John E.
Catlett, C. P. Heywood, J. J. Kirkland, Smith Alexander, Lewis Jackson,
W. H. Dulany, Edward Price, S. J. Miller, James C. Gill, J. H. McVeigh,
John T. Leighter, J. H. Pelhem, W. E. Chamberlain, J. H. Boughton,
Thomas H. Bacon, G. O. Bishop, S. W. Philips, and W. F. Drescher. The
veterans of W. T. Sherman Post, G. A. R., W. H. Davis Commander, and
several hundred school children were conspicuous in the reception.

President Harrison spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have only time to assure you that I
  appreciate very highly this evidence of your respect. We have
  extended our journey to the Pacific coast: we have crossed the sandy
  plain, where for days together the eye saw little to refresh it,
  where the green of the blue grass that is so restful to the eye was
  wanting, and yet again and again at some lone station in the desert
  a few children from a school and some of the enterprising people who
  had pushed out there to make new homes assembled with this old banner
  in their hands and gave us a hearty American welcome. I am glad to
  return to this central body of States in which I was raised; glad
  to be again in the land of the buckeye, the beech, and the maple.
  To these dear children I want to say one word of thanks. They have
  done for us much on this journey to make it pleasant; their bright
  faces have cheered us; I love to see them. The care the States are
  taking for their education is wisely bestowed. God bless them all;
  open to their feet pleasant ways and qualify them better than we have
  been in our generation to uphold and perpetuate these magnificent
  civil institutions. Thanking you most sincerely for this kindly
  demonstration I bid you good-by. [Great cheers.]




SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS, MAY 14.

_At the Tomb of Lincoln._


Brief stops were made at Barry, Baylis, Griggsville, and Jacksonville,
but not long enough for speech-making. Thousands of visitors from
neighboring towns helped the people of Springfield welcome the President
on his arrival at 9:15 o'clock. The Committee of Reception that met the
presidential party and escorted them through the principal streets to
the Lincoln Monument in Oak Ridge Cemetery consisted of the Hon. Joseph
W. Fifer, Governor of Illinois; Senator Shelby M. Cullum, Senator John
M. Palmer, ex-Governor Oglesby, Representatives Henderson and Springer,
Lieut.-Gov. L. B. Ray, Secretary of State J. N. Pearson, Auditor
of State C. W. Pavey, Treasurer of State E. S. Wilson, Atty.-Gen.
George Hunt, Adjt-Gen. J. W. Vance, Hon. Rheuna D. Lawrence, Mayor of
Springfield, and Hon. James C. Conkling; also, Hon. John M. Clark and
Col. E. D. Swain, of Chicago.

The procession, composed of Illinois National Guards, veterans of the
G. A. R., Sons of Veterans, Knights of Pythias, and the City Fire
Department, was marshalled by Gen. Jasper N. Reese, assisted by Col.
J. H. Barkley. During the exercises at the monument Mayor Lawrence
presided. Governor Fifer delivered an eloquent address of welcome, to
which the President made the following response:

  _Governor Fifer and Fellow-citizens_--During this extended journey,
  in the course of which we have swept from the Atlantic coast to the
  Golden Gate, and northward to the limits of our territory, we have
  stood in many spots of interest and looked upon scenes that were full
  of historical associations and of national interest and inspiration.
  The interest of this journey culminates to-day as we stand here for
  a few moments about the tomb of Lincoln. As I passed through the
  Southern States and noticed those great centres of busy industry which
  had been builded since the war, as I saw how the fires of furnaces had
  been kindled where there was once a solitude, I could not then but
  think and say that it was the hand that now lies beneath these stones
  that kindled and inspired all that we beheld; all these fires of
  industry were lighted at the funeral pyre of slavery. The proclamation
  of Abraham Lincoln can be read on all those mountain sides where free
  men are now bending their energies to the development of States that
  had long been under the paralysis of human slavery.

  I come to-day to this consecrated and sacred spot with a heart
  filled with emotions of gratitude that that God who wisely turned
  toward our Eastern shores a body of God-fearing and liberty-loving men
  to found this republic did not fail to find for us in the hour of our
  extremity one who was competent to lead the hearts and sympathies and
  hold up the courage of our people in the time of our greatest national
  peril.

  The life of Abraham Lincoln teaches more useful lessons than any
  other character in American history. Washington stands remote from us.
  We think of him as dignified and reserved, but we think of Lincoln
  as one whose tender touch the children, the poor--all classes of our
  people--felt at their firesides and loved. The love of our people
  is drawn to him because he had such a great heart--such a human
  heart. The asperities and hardships of his early life did not dull,
  but broadened and enlivened, his sympathies. That sense of justice,
  that love of human liberty which dominated all his life, is another
  characteristic that our people will always love. You have here in
  keeping a most precious trust. Toward this spot the feet of the
  reverent patriots of the years to come will bend their way. As the
  story of Lincoln's life is read his virtues will mould and inspire
  many lives.

  I have studied it and have been filled with wonder and admiration.
  His life was an American product; no other soil could have produced
  it. The greatness of it has not yet been fully discovered or measured.
  As the inner history of the times in which he lived is written we find
  how his great mind turned and moved, in time of peril and delicacy,
  the affairs of our country in their home and foreign relations with
  that marvellous tact, with that never-failing common-sense which
  characterized this man of the people. And that impressive lesson we
  have here this morning. I see in the military uniform of our country,
  standing as guards about this tomb, the sons of a race that had been
  condemned to slavery and was emancipated by his immortal proclamation.
  And what an appropriate thing it is that these whose civil rights were
  curtailed even in this State are now the trusted, affectionate guards
  of the tomb in which he sleeps!

  We will all again and again read the story of Lincoln's life, and
  will find our hearts and minds enlarged, our loves and our charities
  broadened, and our devotion to the Constitution, the flag, and the
  free Government which he preserved to us, intensified. And now,
  my friends, most cordially do I thank you for these kind words of
  welcome. I shall go from this tomb impressed with new thoughts as to
  the responsibilities of those who bear the responsibilities, though in
  less troublous times, of that great man to whose memory my soul bows
  this morning. [Applause.]


_At the State House._

When the President closed he was presented by Governor Fifer, on
behalf of the citizens of Petersburg, Ill., with a gold-headed cane
made from the Lincoln store building at New Salem. Speeches were made
by Postmaster-General Wanamaker and Secretary Rusk, during which the
President and Governor Fifer proceeded to the State House, where a large
crowd collected and the President made the following address:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I feel that we make a very poor return to you
  here for your cordial welcome, and for these extensive preparations
  which you have made to do us honor, but this journey has been so
  long, the time consumed already so great, the demand for my presence
  in Washington is such that I cannot protract the stay here with you
  this morning. I beg all to believe that most heartily and sincerely I
  thank you for this cordial welcome from Illinois, for the interesting
  moments that we have spent about the tomb of that man who would have
  made the fame of Illinois imperishable and Springfield the Mecca for
  patriotic feet if no other man in the history of the State had ever
  come to eminence--Abraham Lincoln. [Cheers.] In his life you have a
  treasury of instruction for your children, a spring of inspiration for
  your people that will be lasting. [Cheers.]




DECATUR, ILLINOIS, MAY 14.


Decatur tendered the President an enthusiastic greeting. Ten
thousand citizens and school children participated in the welcoming
demonstrations. The Committee of Reception consisted of Mayor Chambers,
Hon. S. S. Jack, Hon. W. C. Johns, Dr. John T. Hubbard, Dr. William
A. Barnes, W. H. Bramble, Maj. F. L. Hays, M. F. Kanan, Mrs. W. B.
Chambers, Mrs. J. M. Clokey, Mrs. W. F. Calhoun, and Miss Belle Burrows.
Hon. J. H. Rowell, of Bloomington, was also a member of the committee.

In response to Mayor Chambers' welcoming address President Harrison said:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--We have been now something
  more than four weeks traversing this broad and beautiful domain
  which, without regard to State lines, we call our country. We have
  passed with such rapidity that our intercourse with the people has
  necessarily been brief and attended by many inconveniences to them.
  Everything that kind hearts could do to make the trip pleasant to us
  has been done, and yet I have always felt that our hasty call at these
  prosperous cities where so much pains have been taken in decoration
  to do honor to us gives us opportunity to make very inadequate
  returns to them. We have been shooting like a meteor as to rapidity,
  but without its luminosity. [Laughter.] It is very pleasant after
  seeing California, Arizona, Idaho, and Colorado, States in which the
  annual rainfall is inadequate to the annual crops, and where the
  dependence of the husbandman is wholly upon irrigation, to come again
  in these Central States, familiar to me from my boyhood, to see crops
  that the Lord waters in every season. The land of the blue grass is
  the land of my love. Nowhere can there be seen fairer landscapes,
  nowhere richer farms, than here in your own great State of Illinois,
  a State whose history has been full of illustrious achievements, rich
  in possibilities, where lived our illustrious sons; a State whose
  population is intelligent, contented, orderly, and liberty-loving; a
  State whose development has not yet begun to approach its possible
  limits; a State having advantages by the location, swept as it is by
  two of the great waterways of the continent, advantages of access
  and markets by lake and rail and river unexcelled by any State in
  the Union; a State that has not forgotten that the permanence of
  our free institutions depends upon the intelligence of the people,
  and has carefully, at the very beginning, laid a foundation for a
  common-school system in which every man's child may have a free
  education. [Cheers.] These are not simply schools of intelligence,
  but, as I have said before, they are schools of statesmanship. They
  tend as much as any other public institution to make our people a
  Nation of loving people. Here on these benches and on this playground
  the people of rich and poor mingle together, and the pampered son gets
  his airs rubbed off with the vigor of his playmates. ["That's so!"
  and cheers.] Our Government does not undertake to regulate many of
  the affairs of civil life. The bright blue sky of hope is above every
  boy's head, affording great opportunities for advancement, and then
  our people are left to themselves. Certain great duties are devolved
  upon the Government--to provide revenue and finance and in every
  branch of public interest to legislate in the general interests of all
  the people. I thank you most heartily for this great demonstration. We
  leave you with our thanks, our best wishes for your State, your city,
  and especially for these dear little ones from your schools who come
  to greet us. [Applause.]




TUSCOLA, ILLINOIS, MAY 14.


At Tuscola another large assemblage greeted the travellers most
enthusiastically. The Committee of Reception consisted of Mayor Patrick
C. Sloan, A. W. Wallace, J. J. Knox, Frank Pearce, Dr. S. V. Ramsey, O.
H. Sloan, Hans Heurichs, A. C. Sluss, J. W. King, P. M. Moore, D. A.
Conover, and Col. W. Taggart.

In response to a hasty but cordial welcome from Mayor Sloan the
President said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is very kind of you to assemble here in
  such large numbers to extend to us a greeting as we hurry through your
  beautiful State. We can tarry with you but for a moment, for we are in
  true sense pilgrims. It is pleasant to look in your faces and to read
  there the same kindly thoughts and the same friendliness that seems
  to have covered this whole land as we have journeyed through it. I do
  not like to say anything anywhere that makes a line of division; for I
  know that these assemblages are without regard to politics, and that
  men of all parties have extended to us a cordial greeting. The flag,
  the institutions, and the general good of our people are themes which
  we appreciate, are themes which we honor, though we may approach them
  on different lines. I am glad to notice as I journey through your
  State the evidences of a coming harvest that I hope will be bountiful.
  Wishing for you every good, I bid you good-by. [Cheers.]




CHRISMAN, ILLINOIS, MAY 14.


At Chrisman the President met with another hearty welcome. More than
6,000 people were present, many coming from Paris, Danville, and other
neighboring points. The Reception Committee consisted of J. F. Van
Voorhees, C. E. Kenton, C. A. Smith, and Revs. Wiley and Wilkin. Kenesaw
Post, G. A. R., of Paris, Ill., J. M. Moody Commander, and a number of
veterans from Ridge Farm were present.

Mr. Van Voorhees introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--I have but one message for all these vast assemblies
  of my fellow-citizens who have been greeting us for something more
  than a month at every point where we have stopped. That message is
  to thank you for all these greetings and for the friendliness which
  shines in your faces. I am glad this is a Government by the people,
  because they are the most capable governors that can be found. No
  man can traverse this country, as I have done, from the Potomac to
  the Golden Gate and from the Golden Gate to the cities that open on
  Puget Sound, to the great North Sea, and can look into the faces
  of these people that come from every pursuit, without feeling that
  this Government, raised upon the bulwark of patriotism, is, by God's
  goodness, a perpetual institution. The patriotism of our people, their
  unselfish love for the flag, the great good-nature with which they lay
  aside all sharp party divisions and come together under one banner,
  is very gratifying to us all. Our trip has been attended by many
  incidents that have been full of pleasure and sometimes full of pathos.

  We have never lost sight of the flag in all this journey. Sometimes
  out on the Great American Desert, as it used to be called, where
  nothing but the sage brush gave evidence of the power of nature to
  clothe the earth, from a little dug-out, where some man had set out to
  make a home for himself, would float the starry banner. [Cheers.]

  This is a great country, girded around by the Grand Army of the
  Republic. I have never been out of the fellowship of that great
  organization. I have never stopped on all this trip but some comrade
  did not stretch up his hand to greet me. I have evidence that some
  of you are here to-day in this great State, such a magnificent
  contribution to the Grand Army that they were. I am glad to see these
  children. They have added grace and beauty to every meeting which we
  have had in this long journey. Cherish it in your community--this most
  beneficial institution--the common school of your State.

  And now, thanking your kindly welcome, and sorry that we can tarry
  for only these few minutes, I bid you good-by, and God bless you.
  [Prolonged cheering.]




MONTEZUMA, INDIANA, MAY 14.


It was about 3 P.M. Thursday when the train crossed the Indiana line
and arrived at Montezuma, where the President was met by a very large
and enthusiastic delegation from Indianapolis, headed by Gov. Alvin P.
Hovey, Mayor Thomas L. Sullivan, Gen. Lew Wallace, ex-Gov. Isaac P.
Gray, Judge William A. Woods, ex-Senator McDonald, and Senator David
Turpie. The escort from Indianapolis included representatives from 52
labor organizations, from each G. A. R. post in the city, and delegates
from the Hendricks, Gray, Cleveland, Columbia, Marion, Metropolitan,
and Tippecanoe clubs. The Montezuma committee consisted of Rev. Thomas
Griffith, Joseph Burns, T. A. Welshan, J. E. Johnston, N. S. Wheeler,
and H. B. Griffith.

No meeting could have been more cordial. Hon. James T. Johnston, of
Rockville, in a few eloquent sentences welcomed the President and Mrs.
Harrison on their home-coming.

The greeting overcame the President for a few moments, and he was unable
to respond to the demand for a speech at any length. He said:

  _My Friends_--We have had a long journey, and one that has been
  attended by a great many pleasant incidents. We have had cheers of
  welcome reaching from our first stop, at Roanoke, Va., stretching
  across the mountains of Tennessee and Northern Georgia and Alabama,
  down through Arkansas and Texas, and along the Pacific coast.
  Everywhere we have had the most cordial and kindly greeting; but as
  I cross to-day the border line of Indiana and meet again these old
  friends I find in your welcome a sweetness that exceeds it all.

At this point tears came to the President's eyes, and his utterance
became so choked he could say no more.




INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA, MAY 14.


Promptly on schedule time, at 4:45, the presidential train arrived at
Indianapolis. Its approach was heralded by an artillery salute. The stay
in the city was limited to forty-five minutes. The Escort and Reception
Committee--in addition to the distinguished officials mentioned at
Montezuma--consisted in part of the following prominent citizens:
Hon. R. B. F. Peirce, Hon. C. W. Fairbanks, Rev. M. L. Haines, Daniel
Stewart, Col. Eli Lilly, George L. Knox, George G. Tanner, President
of the Board of Trade; W. D. Wiles, John W. Murphy, George E. Townley,
Silas T. Bowen, W. B. Holton, John M. Shaw, Albert Gall, I. S. Gordon,
John P. Frenzel, D. A. Richardson, W. F. C. Golt, Arthur Gillet, John
H. Holliday, Dr. Henry Jameson, Robert Kipp, Thomas C. Moore, V. K.
Hendricks, Charles E. Hall, Nathan Morris, E. E. Perry, Smiley N.
Chambers, G. B. Thompson, Franklin Landers, and R. K. Syfers.

The preparations for the President's reception were upon an extensive
scale; the business houses were covered with bunting, and pictures
of the distinguished traveller were seen everywhere. Fully 50,000
people participated in the welcome home. A speakers' stand was erected
in Jackson Place. The parade was a most successful feature of the
demonstration; thousands of veterans, sons of veterans, and other
citizens were in line. Gen. Fred Knefler was Marshal of the day, aided
by the following staff: Major Holstein, George W. Spahr, J. Hauch, John
V. Parker, J. B. Heywood, W. O. Patterson, Samuel Laing, J. A. Wildman,
H. C. Adams, A. W. Hendricks, John W. Keeling, Charles Martindale, W. H.
Tucker, J. M. Paver, H. C. Cale, Josh Zimmerman, T. S. Rollins, E. S.
Kise, O. P. Ensley, Frank Sherfey, and Berry Robinson.

Cheer after cheer went up from the vast concourse as the President made
his way to the stand, accompanied by Secretary Rusk, Postmaster-General
Wanamaker, and the Escort Committee. It was a genuine Hoosier
welcome. Governor Hovey made a brief but feeling address, welcoming
the President's return with "pride and pleasure." Mayor Sullivan
followed the Governor in a warm greeting on behalf of the citizens of
Indianapolis.

President Harrison was visibly affected at the manifestations of love
and esteem, and during the speech-making clearly betrayed the emotion he
felt at the cordiality of his welcome. He spoke as follows:

  _Governor Hovey, Mayor Sullivan and Friends_--I do not think I can
  speak much to-day. The strain of this long journey, the frequent
  calls that have been made upon me to speak to my fellow citizens from
  Washington to the Golden Gate, from the Golden Gate to the Straits of
  Fuca, and from the most northwestern portion of our territory here to
  my own home, has left me somewhat exhausted in body and in mind, and
  has made my heart so open to these impressions, as I greet my old home
  friends, that I cannot, I fear, command myself sufficiently to speak
  to you at any length. Our path has been attended by the plaudits of
  multitudes; our way has been strewn with flowers; we have journeyed
  through the orchards of California, laden with its golden fruit; we
  have climbed to the summit of great mountains and have seen those
  rich mines from which the precious metals are extracted; we have
  dropped again suddenly into fruitful valleys, and our pathway has
  been made glad by the cheerful and friendly acclaim of our American
  fellow-citizens without regard to any party division [applause]; but
  I beg to assure you that all the sweetness of the flowers that have
  been showered upon us, that all the beauty of these almost tropical
  landscapes upon which we have looked, that all the richness of these
  precious mines sink into forgetfulness as I receive to day this
  welcome from my old friends. [Great applause.] My manhood has known
  no other home but this. It was the scene of my early struggles; it
  has been the scene, and you have been the instruments and supporters
  in every success I have achieved in life. I come to lay before you
  to-day my thankful offering for your friendly helpfulness that was
  extended to me as a boy and that has been mine in all the years of
  our intercourse that have intervened until this hour. [Applause.]
  I left you a little more than two years ago to take up the work of
  the most responsible office in the world. I went to these untried
  duties sustained by your helpful friendliness. I come to you again
  after these two years of public office to confess many errors, but to
  say to you that I have had but one thought in my mind. It was to use
  whatever influence had been confided to me for the general good of all
  our people. [Applause.] Our stay to-day is so brief that I must deny
  myself the pleasure I would have in taking these old friends by the
  hand. God bless you all. I have not forgotten, I can never forget,
  Indianapolis. [Prolonged applause.] I look forward to it, if my life
  shall be spared, as the city in which I shall rest when the hard work
  of life is done. I rejoice in its increase, in its development as a
  commercial centre. I love its homes, its people; and now if you will
  pardon me the effort of further speech and believe me when I say this
  is a most interesting and tender moment to me, allow me to say to you
  for a time, God bless you every one and good-by. [Great cheering.]




RICHMOND, INDIANA, MAY 14.


At Richmond, Ind., a very large and enthusiastic assemblage cheered the
President. The Reception Committee consisted of Mayor Perry J. Freeman,
Hon. Henry U. Johnson, C. C. Binkley, John Harrington, Everett A.
Richey, Andrew F. Scott, J. H. Macke, John H. Nicholson, Col. John F.
Miller, Capt. J. Lee Yaryan, Dr. J. R. Weist, E. D. Palmer, H. C. Starr,
Frank J. Brown, J. B. Howes, and Isaac Jenkins.

Congressman Johnson introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We are now about completing a very long
  journey. For something more than four weeks we have been speeding
  across the country, from the Potomac to the Golden Gate, and northward
  along Puget Sound. The trip, while it has been full of pleasurable
  incidents, while it has been attended with every demonstration of
  friendliness and respect, has, as you can well understand, been full
  of labor. I began this day--and it is only a sample of many--at 5
  o'clock this morning, by speaking to my fellow-citizens at Hannibal,
  Mo., and from that place to this I have been almost continuously on
  my feet or shaking hands over this platform with friends who had
  gathered there. We have seen regions that were new to me, people that
  were strangers, and yet, throughout the whole of this journey we
  have been pervaded, surrounded, inspired by the magnificent spirit
  of American patriotism. [Cheers.] I come now to pass through my own
  State. I have so often within the last two years been at Indianapolis
  and passed through Richmond that I did not expect you would take any
  special notice of our passage to-night. I am all the more gratified
  that you should have surprised us by this magnificent demonstration.
  As I had occasion to say at Indianapolis, the respect, the confidence,
  the affectionate interest of my Indiana friends is more valuable
  to me than anything else in life. I went from you two years ago to
  new duties, borne down with a sense of the great responsibility
  that was upon me, and I am glad to believe from what I see to-night
  that I have at least saved the respect and friendship of my Indiana
  fellow-citizens. [Cries of "That's so!" and cheers.] And now, as
  I return again to labors and duties that are awaiting me, I leave
  with you my most affectionate greeting and sincere desire for the
  prosperity of Indiana and all its citizens. I hope that my life will
  be spared to be once more a dweller in this great State. [Cheers.]




DAYTON, OHIO, MAY 14.


A great assembly, numbering over 10,000 people, greeted the President
on arrival at Dayton, Ohio, at 9 o'clock. The veterans of "The Old
Guard Post", Parker Rusby Commander, were present in a body; also
many veterans from Dister Post, Hiram Strong Post, Birch, and Martin
De Lancy posts, together with a large representation of the Sons of
Veterans. Among the prominent citizens and ladies who received the
presidential party were Mrs. W. D. Bickham, Miss Rebecca Strickel,
Charles and Daniel Bickham, Hon. Ira Crawford, Hon. Washington Silzel,
Wm. P. Callahan, Fred G. Withoft, Dr. J. M. Weaver, E. B. Lyon, Dr. J.
S. Beck, C. M. Hassler, A. L. Bauman, Dr. Joseph E. Lowes, B. T. Guion,
Henry Kissinger, Hon. Dennis Dwyer, E. F. Pryor, Charles P. Garman,
D. K. Hassler, Charles Auderton, N. D. Bates, John A. Miller, John
A. Bell, C. Y. Osborn, Joseph S. Crane, Ed. Best, Daniel E. Meade,
Samuel Craighead, Warren Munger, H. C. Harries, G. C. Kennedy, William
Craighead, A. A. Simonds, S. Brenner, D. F. Giddinger, Simon Gebhart,
George La Rue, D. E. McSherry, Charles James John Patterson, Dr. J. A.
Walters, and Rev. Dr. A. A. Willett.

The President's appearance was the signal for a prolonged outburst of
patriotic feeling, in recognition and response to which he spoke as
follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We have journeyed now about nine thousand
  miles, and I have never been, in all this distance, out of sight of an
  Ohio man. [Laughter and cheers.] Everywhere we have journeyed, whether
  in the New South, awakening under the new influences of freedom to
  an industrial life that was not possible under slavery; whether on
  the deserts of Arizona or among the orange groves of California, or
  in one of those wonderful States that have been builded within the
  last few years on Puget Sound, some one, noting the fact that I was
  Ohio-born, would claim kin-ship, and so far as I could judge, in my
  limited observation of them, I think they carried the Ohio faculty
  with them to their new homes of getting their fair share of things.
  [Laughter and cheers.] I do most cordially thank you, citizens of
  Dayton, for this pleasant and friendly demonstration. I cannot talk
  long. This whole journey has been a succession of speeches. I have
  come to think it must be tiresome to you to have one of my speeches
  every morning with your breakfast coffee. [Cries of "No! no!" and
  applause.] But it has been a most cheerful thing to me to observe
  everywhere, even in those distant and sparsely settled regions of
  the West, that the American flag was never out of sight. I do not
  think I have ever lost sight of the Stars and Stripes since we left
  Washington. [Cheers.] Several times we have been deeply touched as we
  moved along over the sandy plains to see at some isolated and very
  humble cabin a man or child step to the door and unfurl the Starry
  Banner. [Cheers.] Everywhere I have met comrades of the Grand Army of
  the Republic, everywhere the atmosphere seemed to be pervaded by a
  magnificent spirit of Americanism. [Cheers.] We are one people--one
  in our purposes, aims and lives; one in our fealty to the flag, the
  Constitution, and the indissoluble Union of the States. [Cheers.]

  Ohio has always maintained a magnificently conspicuous place in the
  sisterhood of the States--peopled, as she was, by the great patriots
  of the Revolutionary period; receiving, as she did, in this great
  basin, that overspill of patriotism that moved toward the West after
  the Revolutionary struggle was ended. She has given to the Government,
  in army life and in the civil service, a magnificent galaxy of great
  men. [Cheers.] In the hope that this journey, which has been full of
  toil, may not prove unprofitable to the people, as it certainly has
  not been unprofitable to me, I leave you to take up my public duties
  with new encouragement and new resolves to do the best I can for all
  the people. [Cheers.]




XENIA, OHIO, MAY 14.


It was nearly 10 o'clock when the city of Xenia was reached, but a large
crowd greeted the tired travellers. A reception committee, consisting of
Hon. Charles F. Howard, Mayor; Hon. John Little, Hon. N. A. Fulton, Hon.
George Good, Charles L. Spencer, and F. E. James escorted the party from
Dayton.

Judge Little introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Friends_--I began my day's work at 5 o'clock and have already
  made ten speeches, but I feel that a few spoken words are but small
  return to those who have gathered to express their friendly regard. No
  man is worthy to hold office in this Republic who does not sincerely
  covet the good-will and respect of the people. The people may not
  agree in their views on public questions, but while they have a great
  many points of difference they have more of agreement, and I believe
  we are all pursuing the same great end--the glory of our country, the
  permanency of our institutions, and the general good of our people.
  The springs of all good government--the most important things after
  all--are in the local communities. In the townships, school districts,
  and municipalities, there the utmost care should be taken. If their
  affairs are wisely and economically administered, those of the State
  and the Nation are sure to be. Upon these foundation stones the safety
  of the Nation rests, and I am glad to know that so much careful
  thought is being given to these questions by public men and the people
  generally. Thanking you for your attendance and cordial greeting. I
  bid you good-night. [Cheers.]




COLUMBUS, OHIO, MAY 14.


It lacked but fifteen minutes of midnight when the train rolled into
the Union Depot at Columbus. Notwithstanding the lateness of the hour a
fair-sized and enthusiastic crowd was present, including a number of G.
A. R. veterans.

In response to repeated calls the President appeared, accompanied by
Secretary Rusk, and said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I left Hannibal, Mo., this morning at 6
  o'clock, and have made twelve speeches to-day. You have been very
  thoughtful to meet us here, and I know you will excuse me if I say
  nothing more than I thank you. Good-night. [Applause.]




ALTOONA, PENNSYLVANIA, MAY 15.


The last day of the long journey began with a speech at Altoona at 10
o'clock. Superintendent and Mrs. Theodore N. Eby joined the party here.
The assemblage was a large one and the President shook hands with many
until the crowd began calling for a speech.

Postmaster-General Wanamaker introduced the distinguished traveller,
saying: "Outside of Indiana I think the President could not be more at
home than he is in Pennsylvania, and he requires no introduction."

The President spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--The book has been closed. I have been talking so much
  while on this trip that I am sure you will excuse me this morning. It
  has been a delightful journey, yet we experienced, perhaps, that which
  is the crowning joy of all trips--getting back home; that is the place
  for us. [Cheers.] I am glad to have this greeting from my Pennsylvania
  friends this morning. Mr. Wanamaker was not far wrong when he said
  that after Indiana Pennsylvania was pretty close to me. It was in
  one of these valleys, not very distant from your political Capitol,
  that my mother was born and reared, and of course this State and this
  section of Pennsylvania has always had a very dear interest for me.
  [Cheers and great noise from steam being blown off at shops.] Of the
  applause that we have enjoyed on this journey our reception here has
  been the most original of all. [Prolonged cheering.]




HARRISBURG, PENNSYLVANIA, MAY 15.


The arrival at Harrisburg at 1:15 P.M. was heralded by a presidential
salute, and 10,000 cheers went up as the President emerged on the rear
platform, accompanied by Secretary Rusk and Postmaster-General Wanamaker.

Among the prominent citizens who pressed forward to greet the travellers
was his excellency Governor Pattison, Speaker Thompson, of the House of
Representatives, Secretary of the Commonwealth Harrity, Adjutant-General
McClelland, Hon. B. F. Meyers, Private Secretary Tate, and many members
of the Legislature. The Governor's Troop, commanded by Lieutenant Ott,
presented arms and Bugler Bierbower sounded the President's march as
the Chief Magistrate appeared. Governor Pattison cordially welcomed the
President and presented him to the great assemblage.

President Harrison closed his long series of brilliant and interesting
addresses in the following words:

  _Governor Pattison and Fellow citizens_--I thank you for the
  courtesy of this reception at the political centre of the great
  State of Pennsylvania. I was informed, a little while ago, by the
  stenographer who had accompanied me on this trip, that I had made
  138 speeches, and when I saw the magnitude of my offence against the
  American people I was in hopes I should be permitted to pass through
  Harrisburg without adding anything to it. I will only express my
  thanks and appreciation. No one needs to tell you anything about
  Pennsylvania or its resources; indeed, my work was very much lightened
  on this journey, because I found that all the people clear out to
  Puget Sound had already found out more about their country than I
  could possibly tell them. [Cheers.]

  It is a pleasant thing that we appreciate our surroundings. We
  love our own home, our own neighborhood, our own State. It would be a
  sad thing if it were not so. There is only just enough discontent to
  keep our people moving a little. Now and then some boy gets restless
  in the homestead and pushes out to the West; the result is a thorough
  mingling of the people. I do not know what would have become of
  Pennsylvania if some people from other States had not come in and
  some of your people gone out. It is this that makes the perfect unity
  of our country. It was delightful on our trip to meet old faces from
  home. Though they had apparently been discontented with Indiana and
  left it, they were willing to recall the fact, as I came near to them,
  that they were Hoosiers. It was very pleasant, also, to see people
  as they met the Postmaster-General put up their hands and say, "I am
  from the old Keystone State." General Rusk was never out of sight of a
  Wisconsin man, and of course the Ohio man was always there. [Laughter
  and applause.] Our journey has been accompanied with the labor of
  travel, but out of it all I think I have a higher sense of the perfect
  unity of our people and of their enduring, all-pervading patriotism.
  [Cheers.]




THE RETURN TO WASHINGTON.


There was no demonstration at Baltimore. As the train neared
Washington--on the homestretch of its great run of 9,232 miles--the
President gathered all the members of his party about him in the
observation car, including the train employees and servants, and made
a short speech, in which he thanked all who accompanied him for their
courtesy and attention. He referred to the long journey--without
accident of any kind and without a minute's variance from the
prearranged schedule--as a most remarkable achievement, and paid a high
compliment to Mr. George W. Boyd, the General Assistant Passenger Agent
of the Pennsylvania Railroad for his successful management of the trip,
adding that it was a superb exhibition of what energy and training could
do for a man. He then returned his thanks individually to the engineer,
conductor, and every employee.

The train reached Washington at 5:30 o'clock, exactly on time to a
fraction of a minute. General Harrison was the first to alight to meet
his young grandson, Master Benjamin McKee, and the latter's little
sister. There was no unusual demonstration or speech-making. The
President was met by Secretaries Foster and Proctor, Attorney-General
Miller, Ass't Atty.-Gen. James N. Tyner, Assistant Secretary Nettleton,
Assistant Secretary Willetts, Major Pruden, and Captain Dinsmore.




PHILADELPHIA, MAY 30.


On Decoration Day, 1891, President Harrison, accompanied by
Postmaster-General Wanamaker, Secretary Proctor, Secretary Tracy,
and Private Secretary Halford, visited Philadelphia as the guests of
George G. Meade Post, No. 1, G. A. R., to participate in their memorial
ceremonies. They were met at the station by a committee from the post,
comprising the following veterans: Post Commander Louis P. Langer,
Senior Vice-Commander Alexander M. Appel, Junior Vice-Commander James
Thompson, Adjutant A. C. Johnston, Officer of the Day Robert M. Green,
Guard Charles Harris, Chaplain Rev. I. Newton Ritner, and Past Post
Commanders Henry H. Bingham, Joseph R. C. Ward, George W. Devinny, L. D.
C. Tyler, Alfred J. Sellers, William J. Simpson, James C. Wray, John A.
Stevenson, Alexander Reed, Lewis W. Moore, John W. Wiedersheim, Isaiah
Price, W. Wayne Vogdes, G. Harry Davis, Charles L. Sherman, Henry C.
Harper, Penn Righter, and Isaac R. Oakford. Department Commander George
Boyer and Asst. Adjt.-Gen. Samuel Town were also present to welcome the
Commander-in-Chief. The historic City Troop of cavalry--who, from the
day that General Washington entered Philadelphia to take his second
inaugural oath, have acted as an escort to every President who has
been a guest of the city--escorted the President and the committee to
Independence Hall, where in a brief speech Mayor Stuart, in behalf of
the city, welcomed the Chief Magistrate.

The President, replying to the address of welcome, said:

  _Mr. Mayor, Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and
  Fellow-citizens_--I esteem it a great pleasure to stand in this
  historic edifice in this historic city and to take part to-day as a
  comrade of the Grand Army of the Republic in these most interesting
  and instructive exercises, which commemorate events which have been
  most deeply sunk in our hearts. I think it eminently appropriate that
  we should stand for a little time before going to the graves of our
  fallen comrades in this edifice, where the foundations of independence
  were laid and put into development to make this great Nation to-day.
  In my recent extensive trip through the country I was able to see the
  effects of planting these seeds of freedom, in the flourishing plants
  that have grown. [Applause.]

  We are here in a community that was instituted on principles of
  peace and good will among men. But you gave a conspicuous illustration
  of the facts that the fruits of peace need to be protected.

  You did not all depart from the great lessons taught when you united
  with the comrades from all the other States to hold up the banner of
  the Union and to maintain peace and to perpetuate it at all times. You
  went out to maintain peace, and you have established in the affections
  of all of us the flag of our faith, and the question of submission to
  the Constitution and the law in all States has been settled to the
  contentment of all.

  I appreciate most highly this welcome, and I take part in these
  exercises with a sense of their fitness and a sense of the greatness
  of the event which they commemorate.

  I have never been able to think that this day is one for mourning,
  but think that instead of the flag being at half mast it should be at
  the peak. I feel that the comrades whose graves we honor to-day would
  rejoice if they could see where their valor has placed us. I feel that
  the glory of their dying and the glory of their achievement covers all
  grief and has put them on an imperishable roll of honor.


_At General Meade's Grave._

At the conclusion of the public reception at Independence Hall the
President and his party were escorted to Laurel Hill Cemetery, where
they took part in the ceremonies over the grave of Gen. George G. Meade,
the hero of Gettysburg.

Along the entire line of march to the stand were immense crowds, who
greeted the President with silent demonstrations of respect.

The usual Memorial Day exercises were held, and at their conclusion
Commander Langer said: "I wish to introduce to you the honored guest of
the day, Comrade Harrison, the Chief Magistrate of the Nation."

As the President stepped forward he was heartily cheered. He said:

  _Commander, Comrades of the Grand Army of the Republic, and
  Fellow-citizens_--I have neither the strength nor the voice adequate
  to any extended speech to-day. I come to you as a comrade to take
  part in the interesting exercises of this Memorial Day. It gives me
  special pleasure to combine with that tribute which I have usually
  been able to pay since this day was instituted to the dead of all
  our armies a special mark of respect to that great soldier who won
  Gettysburg. It is impossible to separate some impressions of sorrow
  from these exercises, for they bring to memory comrades who have gone
  from us. How vividly there comes to my memory many battle scenes; not
  the impetuous rush of conflict, but the hour of sadness that followed
  victory. Then it was our sad duty to gather from the field the bodies
  of those who had given the last pledge of loyalty.

  There is open to my vision more than one yawning trench in which we
  laid the dead of the old brigade. We laid them, elbow touching elbow,
  in the order in which they had stood in the line of battle. We left
  them in the hasty sepulchre and marched on. Now we rejoice that a
  grateful Government has gathered together the scattered dust of all
  these comrades and placed them in beautiful and safe places of honor
  and repose. I cannot but feel that if they could speak to us to-day
  they would say put the flag at the top of the mast.

  I have recently returned from an extended tour of the States, and
  nothing so impressed and refreshed me as the universal display of
  this banner of beauty and glory. It waved over every school-house, it
  was in the hands of the school children. As we sped across the sandy
  wastes at some solitary house a man, a woman, a child would come to
  the door and wave it in loyal greeting. Two years ago I saw a sight
  that has ever been present in my memory. As we were going out of the
  harbor of Newport about midnight on a dark night some of the officers
  of the torpedo station had prepared for us a beautiful surprise. The
  flag at the top of the station was unseen in the darkness of the
  night, when suddenly electric search-lights were turned on it, bathing
  it in a flood of light.

  All below the flag was hidden, and it seemed to have no touch with
  earth, but to hang from the battlements of heaven. It was as if Heaven
  was approving the human liberty and human equality typified by that
  flag.

  Let us take on this occasion a new draught of courage, make new
  vows of consecration, for, my countrymen, it was not because it was
  inconvenient that the rebel States should go, not that it spoiled the
  autonomy of the country, but because it was unlawful that all this
  sacrifice had to be made, to bring them back to their allegiance.
  Let us not forget that as good citizens and good patriots it is our
  duty always to obey the law and to give it our loyal support and
  insist that every one else shall do so. There is no more mischievous
  suggestion made than that the soldiers of the Union Army desire to lay
  any yoke on those who fought against us other than the yoke of the
  law. We cannot ask less than that in all relations they shall obey
  the law, and that they shall yield to every other man his full rights
  under the law.

  I thank you for the pleasure of participating in these exercises
  with you to-day, and give you a comrade's best wishes and a comrade's
  good-by.




THE BENNINGTON TRIP, AUGUST, 1891.


On Tuesday, August 18, President Harrison left Cape May Point on a
journey to Bennington, to participate in the dedication of Bennington
Battle Monument. He was accompanied by Private Secretary Halford,
Russell B. Harrison, Mr. Howard Cale, of Indianapolis, and George W.
Boyd, of the Pennsylvania Company. The trip through New Jersey was
uneventful. At Vineland, Glassboro, Camden, Trenton, and Burlington
crowds greeted the President, but as it was raining there was no
speech-making. At Jersey City the party was joined by John A. Sleicher,
W. J. Arkell, and E. F. Tibbott, the President's stenographer.

Leaving New York at noon the first stop was at Cornwall, where the
President was heartily welcomed by a large crowd and bowed his
acknowledgments.




NEWBURGH, NEW YORK, AUGUST 18.


The weather cleared as the party reached historic Newburgh, where 3,000
people gave the Chief Executive a rousing welcome. Hon. M. Doyle, Mayor
of Newburgh, and the following representative citizens received the
President: Ex-Mayor B. B. Odell, Hon. A. S. Cassedy, Hon. B. B. Odell,
Jr., William G. Taggart, Daniel S. Waring, William Chambers, Charles H.
Hasbrouck, J. M. Dickey, Henry B. Lawson, James G. Graham, Thomas R.
Spier, A. E. Layman, George Hasting, Maj. E. C. Boynton, A. Woolsey,
John F. Tucker, William Lynn, George Brown, Dr. D. L. Kidd, H. C. Smith,
Augustus Denniston, E. M. Murtfeldt, and John J. Nutt.

Colonel Sleicher introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I am very much obliged to you for this
  friendly greeting. It is pleasant to run out of the rain and mist
  that have hung about our train for an hour or two into this bright
  sunshine and into the gladness of the pleasant welcome which you have
  extended to us. You are situated here in a region full of historic
  interest. Every child learns early here the story of the sacrifice and
  courage of those who laid the foundation of this Government, which
  has grown beyond the conception of even the wisest of our fathers. I
  am sure that in these things you must all find inspiration to good
  citizenship, and it is pleasant to know that you rejoice that it has
  left its impress upon the hearts of all our people; that upon the
  Sacramento as well as upon the Hudson men love the old memories and
  the old flag. [Applause.]

  I am glad to pause with you a moment in passing to the observance
  in Vermont of one of those great battle events which led to the
  independence of our country. We have great common interests as a
  people, and, while we divide as to the method by which we would
  promote the national prosperity, I am sure we are all devoted in heart
  to the country and the institutions that have done so much for us. In
  the interest of good government we are one; we all believe that the
  Government should be so administered that all the people shall share
  equally in its benefits; that there shall be no favored class. I thank
  you again, and bid you good-by. [Applause.]




KINGSTON, NEW YORK, AUGUST 18.


At Kingston fully 2,000 people were assembled. Prominent among those who
welcomed the President were Hon. James G. Linsley, Hon. Geo. M. Brink,
H. W. Baldwin, William D. Brinnier, D. C. Overbaugh, S. B. Sharpe, B. J.
Winnie, Charles B. Safford, George B. Merritt, O. P. Carpenter, James E.
Phinney, and Noah Wolven.

After shaking hands for several minutes, Hon. William H. Turner
introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Perhaps I had better spend the moment or two
  that remains in saying a word to all of you than in shaking hands
  with the few that can gather about the car. You ask for a speech. It
  is not very easy to know what one can talk about on such an occasion
  as this. Those topics that are most familiar to me, because I am
  brought in daily contact with them, namely, public affairs, are in
  some measure prohibited to me, and I must speak therefore only of
  those things upon which we agree; for I have no doubt, if we were
  closely interrogated, some differences would develop in the views
  of those assembled here. That is one of the things we are proud of
  and that tend to the perpetuity and purity of our institutions--that
  we are permitted to differ in our views, to be independent in our
  opinions, and to be answerable to our consciences and to God only for
  the convictions we entertain. I am sure, however, we all rejoice in
  the evidences of prosperity which are spread over this good land of
  ours. We rejoice in the freedom and happiness and contentment that are
  in our communities and in our homes. We rejoice to know that no cloud
  is over our horizon; that we are at peace with the world and at peace
  among ourselves. I think the world has come to understand that it is
  well to be at peace with us [applause], and I am sure we have come
  to understand that it is very well to be at peace among our selves.
  [Applause.]

  Our situation is one of great favor. We are pretty widely separated
  from those who would hurt us, if there are any such. We are secure
  in our great isolation, and we are secure, too, in our great and
  patriotic people. [Applause.] We do not maintain armies; we do not
  need to extend the conscription list until it takes old age and youth.
  We maintain only the merest skeleton of an army, but we have already
  seen how speedily it may develop into gigantic proportions, and how,
  in a few months, it may take on the discipline that makes it the equal
  of any of the great armies of the world. [Applause.] We have this year
  a season of unusual productiveness. The orchards are laden with fruit,
  the gardens yield their abundant supplies to the table, and the fields
  have produced crops that are too great for our storehouses.

  God has greatly blessed us, and it happens that this season of our
  abundance is not only good for us, but for the world; for again, as
  many times before, the nations of Europe, by reason of crop failures,
  must look to us to feed their people. We have a great surplus and an
  assorted market for it. Our riches must be greatly increased as the
  result of two magnificent harvests. Their good effects will be felt
  in every home, contentment upon the farm, and well-paid labor in all
  our cities and centres of manufacture. Thus it should be. Thus, I am
  sure, we all rejoice that it is, because these institutions of ours
  can have no danger except in a discontented citizenship. As long as
  men have a free and equal chance, as long as the labor of their hands
  may bring the needed supplies into the household, as long as there are
  open avenues of hope and advancement to the children they love, men
  are contented--they are good, loyal, American citizens. [Applause.]
  And now I thank you again for your kindness. [Cheers.]




ALBANY, NEW YORK, AUGUST 18.


It was 6 o'clock in the afternoon when the President arrived at Albany,
during a heavy rain. In anticipation of this visit from the head of the
Nation, the following telegraphic correspondence had passed between the
courteous Governor of New York and President Harrison:

                                                  ALBANY, August 12.
  HON. BENJAMIN HARRISON, _Cape May, N. J._:

  I learn for the first time to-day that you have accepted the
  invitation of Mayor Manning to stop at Albany on your way to Vermont.
  If the plan of your journey will enable you to pass a night in Albany,
  as I hope it may, I shall be pleased to have yourself and party become
  my guests at the Executive Mansion. Personally, as well as officially,
  I assure you it gives me great pleasure to extend this invitation, and
  I sincerely trust that you will so arrange your plans as to give me
  the opportunity of entertaining you. The Executive Mansion is ample
  for the accommodation of such members of your Cabinet or friends as
  may accompany you. On behalf of the people of the State, also, I shall
  be pleased to tender you a public reception at the State Capitol.

                                                      DAVID B. HILL.

                                STOCKTON HOUSE, CAPE MAY, August 12.
  GOV. D. B. HILL, _Albany_:

  I am very much obliged for your very cordial invitation, but it
  will be only possible for me to make a brief stay at Albany. How
  long depends upon the railroad schedule, not yet communicated to me.
  As soon as details are arranged will advise you. For such time as
  I can spare I will place myself in the hands of the city and State
  authorities.

                                                  BENJAMIN HARRISON.

The following prominent citizens of Albany met the President at Selkirk
and escorted him to the city: James Ten Eyck, Chairman; Col. A. E.
Mather, John G. Myers, James M. Warner, Henry C. Nevitt, and William
Barnes. Among others who greeted the President on his arrival were
Capt. John Palmer, Commander-in-Chief of the G. A. R., Hon. Simon W.
Rosendale, Deputy Controller Westbrook, H. N. Fuller, C. B. Templeton,
William H. Cull, and Oscar Smith.

The reception was held in City Hall Square, where many thousand
Albanians assembled. On the platform Governor Hill, Mayor Manning, with
the Common Council, Secretary of State Rice, State Treasurer Danforth,
and other State and municipal officers were gathered. The President
received an ovation as he approached the stand. Mayor Manning welcomed
him in the name of the city and presented Governor Hill, who extended to
the Chief Magistrate a broader welcome in the name of the people of the
Empire State.

Responding to these hospitable addresses, the President said:

  _Governor Hill, Mr. Mayor, and Fellow-citizens_--The conditions
  of the evening, these threatening and even dripping clouds, are not
  favorable to any extended speech. I receive with great gratification
  the very cordial expressions which have fallen from the lips of his
  excellency, the Governor of this great State, and of his honor,
  the Mayor of this great municipality. It is very gratifying to me
  to be thus assured that as American citizens, as public officers
  administering each different functions in connection with the
  government of the Nation, of the State, and of the municipality, we,
  in common with this great body of citizens, whose servants we all
  are, have that common love for our institutions, and that common
  respect for those who, by the appointed constitutional methods, have
  been chosen to administer them, as on such occasions as this entirely
  obliterates all differences and brings us together in the great and
  enduring brotherhood of American citizens. [Prolonged cheering.]

  This great capital of a great State I have had the pleasure of
  visiting once or twice before. I have many times visited your
  commercial capital, and have traversed in many directions the great
  and prosperous Empire State. You have concentrated here great wealth
  and great productive capacity for increased wealth, great financial
  institutions that reach out in their influences and effects over
  the whole land. You have great prosperity and great responsibility.
  The general Government is charged with certain great functions in
  which the people have a general interest. Among these is the duty
  of providing for our people the money with which its business
  transactions are conducted. There has sometimes been in some regions
  of the great West a thought that New York, being largely a creditor
  State, was disposed to be a little hard with the debtor communities
  of the great West; but, my fellow-citizens, narrow views ought not to
  prevail with them or with you and will not in the light of friendly
  discussion. The law of commerce may be selfishness, but the law of
  statesmanship should be broader and more liberal. I do not intend to
  enter upon any subject that can excite division; but I do believe that
  the general Government is solemnly charged with the duty of seeing
  that the money issued by it is always and everywhere maintained at
  par. I believe that I speak that which is the common thought of us all
  when I say that every dollar, whether paper or coin, issued or stamped
  by the general Government should always and everywhere be as good as
  any other dollar. I am sure that we would all shun that condition of
  things into which many peoples of the past have drifted, and of which
  we have had in one of the great South American countries a recent
  example--the distressed and hopeless condition into which all business
  enterprise falls, when a nation issues an irredeemable or depreciated
  money. The necessities of a great war can excuse that.

  I am one of those that believe that these men from your shops, these
  farmers remote from money centres, have the largest interest of all
  people in the world in having a dollar that is worth one hundred cents
  every day in the year, and only such. If by any chance we should fall
  into a condition where one dollar is not so good as another I venture
  the assertion that that poorer dollar will do its first errand in
  paying some poor laborer for his work. Therefore, in the conduct of
  our public affairs I feel pledged, for one, that all the influences of
  the Government should be on the side of giving the people only good
  money and just as much of that kind as we can get. [Cheers.]

  Now, my fellow-citizens, we have this year a most abundant, yes,
  extraordinary, grain crop. All of the great staples have been yielded
  to the labor of the farmer in a larger measure than ever before. A
  leading agricultural paper estimated that the produce of our farms
  will be worth $1,000,000,000 more this year than ever before, and
  it happens that just with this great surplus in our barns we find
  a scarcity in all the countries of Europe. Russia has recently
  prohibited the export of rye, because she needs her crop to feed her
  own people. The demands in France and in England and Germany will
  absorb every bushel of the great surplus we shall have after our
  people are fed, and, whatever complaints there may have been in the
  past, I believe this year will spread a smile of gladness over the
  entire agricultural population of our country.

  This is our opportunity, and I cannot see how it shall be possible
  but that these exports of grain, now reaching the limit of the
  capacity of our railroads and of our ships, shall soon bring back to
  us the lost gold we sent to Europe and more that we did not lose. I
  was told by an officer of the West Shore road to-day that that road
  alone was carrying 100,000 bushels of wheat every day into New York,
  and that it scarcely stopped an hour in the elevator, but was run
  immediately into the bottom of a steam vessel that was to carry it
  abroad. [Cheers.]

  This is only an illustration of what is going on. As the result
  of it our people must be greatly enriched. Where there has been
  complaint, where there has been poverty, there must come this year
  plenty, for the gardens have loaded the table, the orchards cannot
  bear the burdens that hang upon their reddening limbs, and the
  granaries are not equal to the product of our fields. We ought,
  then, this day to be a happy people. We ought to be grateful for
  these conditions and careful everywhere to add to them the virtue
  of patience, frugality, love of order, and, to crown all, a great
  patriotism and devotion to the Constitution and the law--always our
  rule of conduct as citizens. [Cheers.]

  My fellow-citizens, it is very difficult to speak in this heavy
  atmosphere. I beg, therefore, that you will allow me to thank you for
  your friendly demonstration, and bid you good-night.




TROY, NEW YORK, AUGUST 18.


When the special train reached Troy in the evening an immense throng
greeted the President. It was the noisiest demonstration of the day.
General Harrison shook hands with hundreds, many of them working men
just from the shops. The following prominent Trojans composed the
Committee of Reception and escorted the party from Albany: Gen. Joseph
B. Carr, Charles W. Tillinghast, William Kemp, Thomas Dickson, F. N.
Mann, William H. Hollister Jr., Col. Lee Chamberlin, John I. Thompson,
Col. Arthur MacArthur, D. S. Hasbrouck, Samuel Morris, James H. Potts,
J. F. Bridgeman, C. L. Fuller, T. J. O'Sullivan, Cornelius Hannan,
Henry McMillen, H. M. Reynolds, George H. Mead, Dr. C. B. Herrick, and
William Kemp, Jr. The veterans of Willard Post G. A. R., under Commander
Leet, participated in the reception.

Ex-Mayor Wm. Kemp made the address of welcome in the unavoidable
absence of Mayor Whelan. Midst great enthusiasm and cheers General Carr
introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Friends_--I attempted a little while ago to speak in Albany in
  this damp atmosphere, and find my voice is so much roughened by the
  effort that I can hardly hope to make myself heard by you. I am glad
  to have the opportunity to pause some moments in the city of Troy,
  to look into the faces of its industrious and thrifty population.
  I have long known of your city as a city of industry--as a great
  manufacturing city--sending out its products to all the land, and by
  the skill of its workmen and the integrity of its merchants finding
  everywhere a market for wares kept up to the standard. [Applause.]

The President was here interrupted by the blowing of steam-whistles, and
continued, smiling:

  I am quite used to having my speeches punctuated by steam-whistles.
  I am sure that you realize here in a large degree the benefit of
  a policy that keeps the American market for the American workmen.
  [Cries of "Good!" and applause.] I try to be broadly philanthropic in
  my thoughts about the human race, but cannot help thinking that an
  American workman has a stronger claim on my sympathy and help than any
  other workman. [Applause.]

  I believe that our institutions are only safe while we have
  intelligent and contented working classes. I would adopt
  constitutional methods--any administrative method--that would
  preserve this country from the condition into which some others
  have unfortunately fallen, where a hard day's work does not bring
  sustenance for the workman and his family. [Applause.] I would be glad
  if there were not a home in Troy--not a home in the United States of
  America--where there was not plenty for man and wife and child; where
  there was not only sustenance, but a margin of saving that might make
  the old age of the husband and wife and the life of the children
  easier than this generation has been. [Cheers.]




BENNINGTON, VERMONT, AUGUST 19.

_Dedication of the Battle Monument._


President Harrison and his party reached North Bennington at 8 o'clock
on the night of the eighteenth. He was met by the following Committee of
Reception on the part of the city of Bennington: Gen. J. G. McCullough,
M. S. Colburn, J. V. Carney, S. B. Hall, and A. P. Childs; also, Dr.
William Seward Webb, and Col. Geo. W. Hooker, representing the State
Entertainment Committee. As the President appeared he was greeted with
rousing cheers by the large crowd and escorted to the residence of
General McCullough, whose guest he was.

The following morning the distinguished visitors reviewed the grand
parade in honor of the centenary of the admission of Vermont into
the Union and the dedication of the Bennington Battle Monument.
Col. W. Seward Webb, President-General of the Sons of the American
Revolution, accompanied by a mounted Grand Army Post, escorted President
Harrison to the Soldiers' Home, where Gov. Carroll S. Page and all
the living ex-Governors of Vermont greeted him. The presidential
party to review the parade consisted of sixty guests of the State,
and included Secretary of War Proctor, Attorney-General Miller, Gen.
O. O. Howard, Governor Russell, of Massachusetts; Governor Tuttle,
of New Hampshire; Senator Henry L. Dawes and ex-Gov. A. H. Rice, of
Massachusetts; Senators Edmunds and Morrill; Senators Wm. E. Chandler
and J. H. Gallinger, of New Hampshire; Congressmen Grout and Powers;
Adjutant-General Ayling and Hon. John King, of New York.

The parade was the most brilliant and imposing ever seen in the State. A
feature of the decorations was a magnificent triumphal arch, the turrets
and embrasures of which were filled with young maidens clad in brilliant
colors, while on the top of the arch were 125 little girls dressed
in white, with flowing hair, singing patriotic songs. In the loftiest
turret was a gorgeous throne of gold, occupied by Miss Lillie Adams,
personating the Goddess of Liberty.

After the review the presidential party was escorted to the grand stand
at the monument, where 15,000 people assembled.

The battle monument is a plain, square shaft of magnesian limestone
302 feet high. The interior at the base is 22 feet square and has a
stairway. It was built under the supervision of the Trustees of the
Bennington Battle Monument Association. The Building Committee comprised
Gen. John G. McCullough, H. G. Root, A. B. Valentine, M. C. Huling, and
L. F. Abbott.

Gen. Wheelock G. Veazey was President of the Day, and introduced Rev.
Dr. Charles Parkhurst, of Boston, who opened the dedicatory exercises
with prayer. Governor Page delivered the address of welcome, and
was followed by ex-Gov. B. F. Prescott, of New Hampshire, President
of the Bennington Battle Monument Association, who transferred the
monument to the care and keeping of Vermont. Hon. Edward J. Phelps,
the chosen orator of the occasion, then delivered a historical and
scholarly address, which was listened to with marked attention by his
distinguished audience.

At the conclusion of Mr. Phelps' oration Chairman Veazey introduced
President Harrison, who arose midst prolonged cheers and spoke as
follows:

  _Mr. President and Fellow-citizens_--There are several obvious
  reasons why I should not attempt to speak to you at this time.
  This great audience is so uncomfortably situated that a further
  prolongation of these exercises cannot be desirable, but the stronger
  reason is that you have just listened with rapt attention to a most
  scholarly and interesting review of those historical incidents which
  have suggested this assemblage and to those lessons which they furnish
  to thoughtful and patriotic men. [Applause.] A son of Vermont honored
  by his fellow-citizens, honored by the Nation which he has served in
  distinguished public functions, honored by the profession of which he
  is an ornament and an instructor, has spoken for Vermont [applause];
  and it does not seem to me fit that these golden sentences should be
  marred by any extemporaneous words which I can add. I come to you
  under circumstances that altogether forbid preparation. I have no
  other preparation for speech than this inspiring cup of good-will
  which you have presented to my lips. [Applause.] The most cordial
  welcome which has been extended to me to-day makes it unfitting that
  I should omit to make a cordial acknowledgment of it. Perhaps I may
  be permitted, as a citizen of a Western State, to give expression to
  the high regard and honor in which Vermont is held. Perhaps I may
  assume, as a public officer representing in some sense all the States
  of the Union, to bring to-day their appreciation of the history and
  people of this patriotic State. Its history is unique, as Mr. Phelps
  has said. The other colonies staked their lives, their fortunes and
  honor upon the struggle for independence, with the assurance that
  if, by their valor and sacrifice, independence was achieved, all
  these were assured. The inhabitants of the New Hampshire grants alone
  fought with their fellow-countrymen of the colonies for liberty, for
  political independence, unknowing whether, when it had been achieved,
  the property, the homes upon which they dwelt, would be assured by
  the success of the confederate colonies. They could not know--they
  had the gravest reason to fear--that when the authority of the
  confederation of the States had been established this very Government,
  to whose supremacy Vermont had so nobly contributed, might lend its
  authority to the establishment of the claims of New York upon their
  homes; and yet, in all this story, though security of property would
  undoubtedly have been pledged by the royal representative, Vermont
  took a conspicuous, unselfish, and glorious part in achieving the
  independence of the united colonies, trusting to the justice of her
  cause for the ultimate security of the homes of her people. [Applause.]

  It is a most noble and unmatched history; and if I may deliver the
  message of Indiana as a citizen of that State, and as a public officer
  the message of all the States, I came to say, "Worthy Vermont!"
  [Cheers]. She has kept the faith unfalteringly from Bennington
  until this day. She has added, in war and peace, many illustrious
  names to our roll of military heroes and of great statesmen. Her
  representation in the national Congress, as it has been known to
  me, has been conspicuous for its influence, for the position it has
  assumed in committee and in debate, and, so far as I can recall, has
  been without personal reproach. [Cheers] We have occasionally come to
  Vermont with a call that did not originate with her people, and those
  have been answered with the same pure, high consecration to public
  duty as has been the case with those who have been chosen by your
  suffrages to represent the State, and I found when the difficult task
  of arranging a Cabinet was devolved upon me that I could not get along
  without a Vermont stick in it [laughter and applause], and I am sure
  you have plenty of timber left in each of the great political parties.
  [Cheers.] The participation of this State in the War of the Rebellion
  was magnificent. Her troops took to the fields of the South that high
  consecration to liberty which had characterized their fathers in the
  Revolutionary struggle. [Applause.] They did not forget, on the hot
  savannas of the South, the green tops of these hills, ever in their
  vision, lifting up their hearts in faith that God would again bring
  the good cause of freedom to a just issue. [Applause.] We are to-day
  approaching the conclusion of a summer of extraordinary fruitfulness.
  How insignificant the stores that were gathered at Bennington in 1777
  compared with these great storehouses bursting with fulness to-day!
  Our excess meets the deficiency of Europe, and a ready market is
  offered for all our cereals. We shall grow richer by contributions
  which other countries shall make as they take from our storehouses
  the food needed to sustain their people. But after all, it is not
  the census tables of production or of wealth that tell the story of
  the greatness of this country. Vermont has not been one of the rich
  States of the Union in gold and silver, and its lands have not given
  the returns that some of the fertile riversides of the West yield.
  There has been here constant effort and honest toil; but out of all
  this there has been brought a sturdy manhood, which is better than
  riches, on which, rather than to wealth, the security of our country
  rests. [Applause.] I beg you to accept my sincere thanks again for the
  evidence of your friendliness, and my apology that the conditions are
  not such as to enable me to speak as I could wish. [Cheers]


_The Banquet in the Tent._

At 4 o'clock the President's party and the State's invited guests were
entertained at a banquet spread in a mammoth tent. The ladies of the
party were seated in front of the President. Among the notable ladies
present were the wives of General Alger and Attorney-General Miller,
Mrs. E. J. Phelps, Mrs. H. H. Baxter, Mrs. A. F. Walker, Mrs. Horatio
Loomis, Mrs. W. G. Veazey, and the wives of ex-Governor Ormsbee and Gen.
L. G. Kingsley, Miss Roberts, Miss Brown, Miss Ormsbee, the wife of
Senator Morrill, Mrs. B. B. Smalley, the wives of ex-Governors Farnham
and Pingree, and of Auditor Towell. President Harrison was seated
between Governor Page and Secretary Proctor.

Among the distinguished guests--other than those previously
enumerated--were Justice Blatchford, of the Supreme Court; Gen. Russell
A. Alger; Gen. Alexander S. Webb, of New York; Col. A. F. Walker, of
Chicago; Speaker W. E. Barrett, Massachusetts; Col. Albert Clarke,
Boston; Maj.-Gen. J. M. Warner, of Albany; John King, President Erie
Railway; H. W. Bruce, Kentucky; ex-Gov. R. S. Green, New Jersey; Hon.
B. B. Smalley, Dr. E. H. Doty, Asa B. Gardner, Maj.-Gen. William Walls;
Surg.-Gen. J. C. Rutherford and Quartermaster-General W. H. Gilmore,
of Vermont, F. B. Barrett and L. L. Tarbell, Massachusetts; Col. H. C.
Cutler, Col. M. J. Horton, Col. W. H. H. Slack, and Col. H. F. Brigham,
of Governor Page's staff. The following ex-Governors of Vermont were
present: J. W. Stewart, Barstow, Pingree, Farnham, and E. J. Ormsbee.

The entertainment was upon an extraordinary scale, inasmuch as over
3,500 persons were seated at the banquet tables at one time, and 16,000
pieces of figured china were used, while the President's table was
provided with a dinner service of rare Sèvres and old Delft ware.

General Veazey, the President of the Committee, again introduced
President Harrison, who spoke as follows:

  _Mr. President and Fellow-citizens_--Whatever temporary injury my
  voice has suffered was not at the hands of Vermont. [Laughter and
  applause.] New York is responsible. In Albany I spoke in the rain to a
  large assemblage. Perhaps, if it were worth while to trace this vocal
  infirmity further, I might find its origin at Cape May [laughter],
  for I think I started upon this trip with the elements of a cold that
  has to some degree marred the pleasure which I had anticipated to-day.
  But, notwithstanding what my friend, General Veazey, has described
  as "the dilapidated condition" of my voice, I will respond to his
  request to say a word to you. I know that General Veazey had been
  put in charge of the transportation lines of the country; but I did
  not expect to find him in charge of what the boys used to call the
  "cracker line." [Laughter.] It seems that his capacity for usefulness
  in the public service is so great and so diversified that you have
  called upon him to conduct the exercises of this magnificent occasion.
  He is a most excellent Interstate Commerce Commissioner [applause], an
  honor to your State, and I have no criticism of him as President of
  the day, except that he calls too much attention to me. [Laughter and
  applause.]

  This scene, these tables so bountifully and so tastefully spread,
  was one full of beauty when we entered, but it seems now to have
  taken on some of that "dilapidation" which General Veazey ascribed
  to my voice. [Laughter.] I am sure that if the supplies gathered at
  Bennington to-day had been here in 1777 that struggle would have been
  much more obstinate. [Laughter.] But, my fellow-citizens, there is
  much in this occasion that is full of instruction to the strangers
  who by your hospitable invitation have the privilege of meeting with
  you. Wherever men may have been born within this galaxy of great
  States, which makes the greater Union, there is respect and honor
  for the New England character. It has been a source of strength to
  the Nation in its development in material things. It has furnished
  to literature and to invention some of the largest contributions;
  but, more than all this, it has done a great work for all the States,
  and especially those States of the West and Northwest, in which its
  enterprising sons have found new homes, in establishing everywhere a
  love of social order and a patriotic devotion to the Union of States.
  [Applause.] If we seek to find the institutions of New England that
  have formed the character of its own people and have exercised a
  stronger moulding influence than that of any other section upon our
  whole people we shall find them, I think, in their temples, in their
  schools, in their town meetings and in their God-fearing homes.
  [Applause.] The courage of those who fought at Bennington, at Concord,
  Lexington, Bunker Hill, and Saratoga was born of a high trust in God.
  They were men who, fearing God, had naught else to fear. That devotion
  to local self-government which originated and for so long maintained
  the town meeting, establishing and perpetuating a true democracy, an
  equal, full participation and responsibility in all public affairs
  on the part of every citizen, was the cause of the development of
  the love of social order and respect for law which has characterized
  your communities, has made them safe and commemorable abodes for
  your people. These migrations between the States have been to your
  loss, but there is now a turning back to these States of New England
  and to some of its unused farms, which I believe is to continue and
  increase. The migration which you have sent into the South to develop
  its industries, to open its mines, to set up factories and furnaces,
  is doing marvellous work in unifying our people. [Applause.] As I
  journeyed recently across the continent this oneness of our people was
  strongly impressed upon me. I think these centennial observances which
  have crowded one upon another from Concord to the centennial of the
  adoption of the Constitution and the organization of the Supreme Court
  have turned the thought of our people to the most inspiring incident
  in our history, and have greatly intensified and developed our love
  of the flag and our Constitution. [Applause.] I do not believe there
  has been a time in our history when there has been a deeper, fonder
  love for the unity of the States, for the flag that emblematizes this
  unity, and for the Constitution which cements it. [Applause.]

  I believe we have come to a time when we may look out to greater
  things. Secure in our own institutions, enriched almost beyond
  calculation, I believe we have reached a time when we may take a large
  part in the great transactions of the world. [Cheers.] I believe
  our people are prepared now to insist that the American flag shall
  again be seen upon the sea [applause], and that our merchants and
  manufacturers are ready to seize the golden opportunity that is now
  offered for extending our commerce into the States of Central and
  South America. [Cheers.] I believe that conservative views of finance
  will prevail in this country. [Applause.] I am sure discontent and
  temporary distress will not tempt our people to forsake those safe
  lines of public administration in which commercial security alone
  rests. [Applause.] As long as the general Government furnishes the
  money of the people for their great business transactions I believe
  we will insist, as I have said before, that every dollar issued,
  whether paper or coin, shall be as good and be kept as good as any
  other dollar that issues. [Cheers.] The purity, the equality of what
  we call dollars must be preserved, or an element of uncertainty and
  of bankruptcy will be introduced into all business transactions. This
  I may say without crossing lines of division: How this end is to be
  attained I will not attempt to sketch, but I do not hesitate to say
  that I feel myself, in the public interest, pledged so far as in me
  lies to maintain that equality between our circulating money that is
  essential to the perfect use of all. [Prolonged applause.]

  I have gone beyond the promise of the President of the day, and have
  been betrayed by your friendliness into speaking two or three words.
  May I, in closing, tender to these good women of Vermont my thanks
  for the grace and sweetness which their services and their presence
  have lent to this happy occasion? May I say to them that the devoted
  services of their mothers, their courage and patience and helpfulness
  shown by the women in the great struggle for liberty cannot be too
  highly appreciated? It was an easier fate to march with bared breasts
  against the Hessian ramparts at Bennington than to sit in the lonely
  homestead awaiting the issue with tearful eyes uplifted to God in
  prayer for those who perilled their lives for the cause. All honor to
  the New England mother, the queen of the New England home! [Applause.]
  There, in those nurseries of virtue and truth, have been found the
  strongest influences that have moulded your people for good and led
  your sons to honor. [Great cheering.]

At the conclusion John B. Carney, Chairman of the Citizens' Committee,
presented General Harrison with a gold medal bearing a likeness of the
Bennington Monument. As the medal was pinned on the President's coat he
remarked: "It needed not this memento to remind me of this auspicious
occasion."




MT. M'GREGOR, AUGUST 20.


President Harrison and his party arrived at Saratoga on the morning of
the 20th, and were heartily greeted. He immediately embarked for Mt.
McGregor, where another large gathering welcomed him. After visiting the
historic Grant cottage the President became the guest of W. J. Arkell,
at the latter's cottage on the mountain. In the afternoon the party
partook of a "country dinner" at the Hotel Balmoral, given by the Hon.
James Arkell in honor of the President's fifty-eighth birthday.

About 120 guests participated. Senator Arkell presided. Among those
present besides the President's party were: B. Gillam, Capt. John
Palmer, Commander G. A. R.; Hugh Reilly, W. H. Bockes, M. L. Staver,
P. Farrelly, J. S. Lamoreaux, J. M. Francis, William Barnes, Jr.,
and William Whitney, of Albany; Edward Ellis and Samuel Insul, of
Schenectady; John W. Vrooman, of Herkimer; J. Y. Foster, C. C. Shayne,
Spencer Trask, John A. Sleicher, J. H. Breslin, W. A. Sweetzer, S. E.
May, and Marshall P. Wilder, of New York; D. F. Ritchie, W. T. Rockwood,
H. B. Hanson, J. G. B. Woolworthy, W. Lester, C. S. Lester, W. W.
Worden, E. H. Peters, J. M. Marvin, E. C. Clark, and T. F. Hamilton, of
Saratoga; J. A. Manning, of Troy; D. W. Mabee, Frank Jones, and S. C.
Medberry, of Ballston, and John Kellogg and W. J. Kline, of Amsterdam.
Mr. Arkell paid an eloquent tribute to the memory of General Grant and
congratulated his distinguished guest.

President Harrison arose and amid great cheering began:

  _Mr. Arkell and Friends_--It was a part of the covenant of
  this feast that it should be a silent one; not exactly a Quaker
  meeting, as Mr. Arkell has said, because silence there is apt to
  be broken by the moving of the spirit. That is not a safe rule for
  a banquet. [Laughter.] I rise only to thank your generous host and
  these gentlemen from different parts of the State who honor this
  occasion for their friendliness and their esteem. We are gathered
  here in a spot which is historic. This mountain has been fixed in
  the affectionate and reverent memory of all our people and has been
  glorified by the death on its summit of Gen. Ulysses S. Grant.
  [Applause.] It is fit that that great spirit that had already lifted
  its fame to a height unknown in American history should take its
  flight from this mountain-top. It has been said that a great life went
  out here; but great lives, like that of General Grant, do not go out.
  They go on. [Cries of "Good! Good!" and great applause.] I will ask
  you in a reverent and affectionate and patriotic remembrance of that
  man who came to recover all failures in military achievement, and with
  his great generalship and inflexible purpose to carry the flag of the
  republic to ultimate triumph, recalling with reverent interest his
  memory, to drink a toast in silence as a pledge that we will ever
  keep in mind his great services, and in doing so will perpetuate his
  great citizenship and the glory of the Nation he fought to save.




SARATOGA SPRINGS, NEW YORK, AUGUST 21.


The President left Mt. McGregor the afternoon of the 21st, and reached
Saratoga at 4 o'clock, where 50,000 people joined in an ovation to him.
It was the largest gathering ever seen in Saratoga, and the town was
resplendent with colors. The Chief Executive was met by a reception
committee composed of Hon. John R. Putnam, Hon. A. Bockes, Hon. Henry
Hilton, Hon. H. S. Clement, Hon. James M. Marvin, Hon. John W. Crane,
Hon. J. W. Houghton, Gen. W. B. French, Hon. John Foley, Hon. D. Lohnas,
Col. David F. Ritchie, Hon. Lewis Varney, Lieut. A. L. Hall, Edward
Kearney, John A. Manning, George B. Cluett, Prof. Edward N. Jones, and
J. G. B. Woolworth. Wheeler Post, G. A. R., acted as an escort of honor.

Arrived at the Grand Union Hotel, the President was greeted with great
clapping of hands and the waving of 10,000 handkerchiefs by the ladies.
He reviewed the procession from the piazza, and, on being introduced by
Village President Lohnas, spoke a follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The greatness of this assembly makes it
  impossible that I should do more than thank you for the magnificent
  welcome which you have extended me to-day. I have great pleasure in
  being again for a few days in Saratoga--this world renowned health
  and pleasure resort. It gives me great satisfaction to witness, on
  the part of the citizens of Saratoga and of the visitors who are
  spending a season for refreshment or recuperation here, the expression
  of kindness which beams upon me from all your faces. I am sure the
  explanation of all this is that you are all American citizens, lovers
  of the flag and the Constitution [applause], and in thus assembling
  you give expression to your loyalty and patriotism. [Applause.] It
  is not, I am sure, an individual expression; it is larger and better
  than that, for this country of ours is distinguished in naught else
  more than in the fact that its people give their love and loyalty
  and service, not to individuals, but to institutions. [Applause.]
  We love this country because it is a land of liberty, because the
  web and woof of its institutions are designed to promote and secure
  individual liberty and general prosperity. [Applause.] We love it
  because it not only does not create, but because it does not tolerate,
  any distinction between men other than that of merit. [Applause.] I
  desire to thank those comrades who wear the honored badge of the Grand
  Army of the Republic for their escort and their welcome. I never see
  this badge anywhere that I do not recognize its wearer as a friend.
  [Applause.] Survivors of a great struggle for the perpetuity of our
  institutions--having endured in march and camp and battle the utmost
  that men can endure, and given the utmost that men can give--they are
  now as citizens of this republic in civic life doing their part to
  maintain order in its communities and to promote in peace the honor
  and prosperity of the country they saved. [Applause.] Thanking you
  once more for your friendliness and cordial enthusiasm, I will ask you
  to excuse me from further speech. [Great applause.]




FROM SARATOGA THROUGH VERMONT.


The last day of the President's stay at Saratoga Springs he was tendered
a reception by Mr. and Mrs. J. S. T. Stranahan, of Brooklyn, at the
Pompeiian House of Pansa. Admission was by card, and several hundred
well-known people paid their respects to the Chief Magistrate. The wives
of Governor Jackson, of Maryland, ex-Governor Baldwin, of Michigan,
and Hon. George Bliss, of New York, assisted the host and hostess in
receiving. Hon. David F. Ritchie introduced the guests.

On the morning of August 25 the President, accompanied by Secretary
Proctor and the other members of his party, left Saratoga on a
journey through the Green Mountain State. They were accompanied
by Vice-President E. C. Smith, of the Vermont Central road, and
Superintendent C. D. Hammond, of the Delaware and Hudson.




WHITEHALL, NEW YORK, AUGUST, 25.


The first stop was at Whitehall, where the party was met by Hon. H. G.
Burleigh, Gen. J. C. Rogers, William Sinnott, Luke H. Carrington, A. J.
Taft, and Maj. John Dwyer, President of the Washington County Veteran
Association. A train containing several hundred veterans, on their way
to a reunion at Dresden, was in waiting, and a large crowd assembled
around the President's car. The Burleigh Corps acted as a guard of
honor. Ex-Congressman Burleigh, in a brief speech, introduced the
President, whose remarks created much enthusiasm. He said:

  _Comrades and Fellow-citizens_--It is pleasant to come this morning
  upon an assemblage of comrades gathering with their families to a
  social reunion to recall their services and sacrifices and to bathe
  their souls in the glory of this bright day and of this great land
  that they fought to save. [Applause.] Such assemblages are full
  of interest to the veterans, and they are full of instruction and
  inspiration to those who gather with them. It is our habit in the
  West, as it is yours here, to have these annual meetings, and it is
  always a pleasure to me when I can arrange to meet with the comrades
  of my old regiment, or of the old brigade, or with the veterans of
  any regiment of any State who stood for the flag. [Applause.] There
  is a pathetic side to all this. We gather with diminished ranks from
  year to year. We miss the comrades who are dropping by the way. We see
  repeated now that which we saw as the great column moved on in the
  campaign of the war--a comrade dropping out, borne to the hospital,
  followed to the grave--and yet these soldier memories and thoughts
  are brightened by the glories which inspire and attend all these
  gatherings of the veterans of the war. We see the old flag again, and
  I am glad to believe that there has never been a period in our history
  when there was more love for it. [Applause.]

  It is quite natural that it should be so. These veterans who stand
  about me have seen many days and months in camps and battlefields and
  in devastated country through which they marched when there was on
  all the horizon one thing of beauty--that glorified flag. [Applause.]
  They brought home the love of it in their hearts, wrought in every
  fibre of their nature; and it is very natural that the children who
  have come on should catch this inspiration and love from the fathers
  who perilled everything that the flag might still be held in honor,
  and still be an emblem of the authority of one Constitution over an
  undivided Nation. We see to-day how worthy the land was for which
  our comrades died, and for which you, my comrades, offered your
  lives, in its great development and its increasing population, in
  its multiplying homes, where plenty and prosperity, the love of God
  and social order, and all good things abide. In this great Nation,
  striding on in wealth and prosperity to the very first place among the
  nations of the earth; in this land, in truth as well as in theory the
  land of the free, we see that which was worthy of the utmost sacrifice
  of the truest men. [Prolonged Cheers.]

  I recall with pleasure that some of the New York regiments, coming
  to the Western army with Hooker and Howard and Gerry and Williams and
  others, served in the same corps to which I was designated during the
  great campaign upon Atlanta. Some of the comrades who made that march
  from Chattanooga to Atlanta and the sea are here to-day, survivors of
  one of the greatest, in all its aspects, of all the campaigns of the
  war. You came from those bloody fields upon the Potomac, and struck
  hands with us of the West as brothers. You helped us in the struggle
  there to cut the Confederacy in twain, and, lapping around by the sea,
  to strike hands with Grant again near Appomattox. [cheers.]

  I thank you again most cordially for your friendly demonstration
  and presence. If I had the power to call down blessings upon my
  fellow-men, the home of every comrade here would be full of all
  prosperity. [Applause.]




FAIR HAVEN, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


At Whitehall the party was joined by Adj.-Gen. T. S. Peck and Col.
M. J. Horton, of Governor Page's staff. When the Vermont line was
reached General Peck, in the name of the Governor, formally welcomed
the President to the State. Fair Haven was reached at 10 o'clock. The
Reception Committee was Hon. Samuel L. Hazard, Andrew N. Adams, George
M. Fuller, and Wm. V. Roberts.

Mr. Hazard introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--We have already lost some minutes at your
  station, and it will not be possible for me to hold the train longer.
  I thank you for this friendly greeting, and for the kindness which
  beams upon me from the faces of these contented and happy men and
  women of the good State of Vermont. I am glad to see about me the
  evidences of the indomitable pluck and successful enterprise which
  characterize so highly all of your New England States. When you found
  the stones too thick to make agriculture profitable you compelled
  the rocks to yield you a subsistence, and these great slate and
  marble industries have become the centre of wealthy and prosperous
  communities. You are here, each in his own place; these good ladies in
  that supremely influential position, the American home, and you, my
  countrymen, in the shops and in the fields, making contributions to
  the prosperity and glory of this great Nation. It is pleasant to know
  that the love of country, stimulated by the teaching of the father and
  of the mother, revived by these recollections of the first struggle
  for independence, deepened by the sacrifices which were made in the
  Civil War to preserve what our fathers had purchased for us, are still
  holding sway in the hearts of our people. [Cheers.]

  We are conspicuously a people abiding in respect and honor for
  the law. The law, as expressed in our constitutions and in our
  statute-books, is the sovereign to which we all bow. We acknowledge
  no other. To the law each and every one should give his undivided
  allegiance and his faithful service. There is no other rule that
  will bring and maintain in our communities that peaceful and orderly
  condition, that good neighborhood and kindly intercourse, which is
  so essential to the happiness of any community. I am sure that these
  things, now as of old, characterize these New England communities,
  where the strife which your colder climate and your soil compel you
  to make for your subsistence has bred habits of thrift, economy, and
  independence, and the love of liberty which I am sure is as fadeless
  as the stars. [Applause.]

  Thanking you again for this pleasant morning reception, I will bid
  you good-by. [Applause.]




CASTLETON, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


At Castleton there was a large crowd, including 200 pupils of the
Normal School, who pelted the President with roses and golden-rod. The
Reception Committee comprised Hon. Henry L. Clark, A. E. Leavenworth, S.
B. Ellis, and A. L. Ramson.

Judge Clark introduced the President, who said:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--It is very pleasant to meet here, mingling
  with the citizens of this neighborhood, the pupils of your Normal
  School. One of the most influential characters in the history of the
  United States is the New England school-teacher. If we could follow
  the track of these intelligent men and women who have gone out from
  the New England States into the West and South; if we could trace
  those strong, yet slender and hard-to-be-discovered, threads of
  influence which they have started in the communities to which they
  went; if we could know how they have impressed on the minds of the
  pupils brought under their care the great lessons of self-respect
  and love for free institutions and social order,--we should have a
  higher thought than we have yet had of the power and dignity of these
  pioneers of education. [Cheers.]




BRANDON, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


Brandon gave the travellers a hearty reception at 11 A.M. Ex-Gov.
J. W. Stewart, of Middlebury, Hon. Aldace F. Walker, of Chicago; G.
G. Benedict and C. S. Forbes, of St. Albans, joined the party here.
Ex-Governor Ormsbee welcomed the President on behalf of the residents of
Brandon.

General Harrison said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--The kindly pelting which I have received at
  the hands of some of your ladies and of these bright children reminds
  me of a like experience on the California trip, when we were so pelted
  with bouquets of handsome flowers that we were very often compelled
  to retreat from the platform and take cover in the car. These gifts
  of flowers which you bring to me here are the products of your fields
  and not of your gardens. The beautiful golden-rod! It is pleasant to
  think that in this plant, so widely distributed, slightly diversified
  in its characteristics, but spreading over nearly our whole country,
  we have a type of the diversity and yet the oneness of our people; and
  I am glad to think that its golden hue typifies the gladness and joy
  and prosperity that is over all our fields this happy year, and, I
  trust, in all your homes. I thank you for your pleasant greeting this
  morning, and bid you good-by. [Cheers.]




MIDDLEBURY, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


On the arrival of the train at Middlebury at 11:30 A.M. another large
and enthusiastic throng was on hand. The President was greeted by
ex-Gov. John W. Stewart, Col. A. A. Fletcher, G. S. Wainwright, Judge
James M. Slade, Charles M. Wilds, E. H. Thorp, E. P. Russell, B. S.
Beckwith, E. J. Mathews, John H. Stewart, A. J. Marshall, Col. T. M.
Chapman, Rufus Wainwright, and Frank A. Bond. The veterans of Russel
Post, G. A. R., were present in a body, also the Sons of Veterans.

Governor Stewart introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--Though I have not before had the pleasure of
  looking into the faces of many of you, Vermont has for many years
  been familiar to me, and has been placed high in my esteem by the
  acquaintance I have formed at Washington with the representatives
  you have sent there. It has been a great pleasure to me to know your
  esteemed fellow-citizen, Governor Stewart. Your State and district and
  the Nation at large have had in him a most able and faithful champion
  of all that was true and clean and right. [Three cheers were given for
  Governor Stewart.]

  You have been particularly fortunate, I think, in your
  representatives at Washington, as I had occasion to say the other day
  at Bennington. I am glad to be here at the site of this institution of
  learning--Middlebury College, which is soon to complete its hundredth
  year of modest yet efficient service in training the minds of your
  young men for usefulness in life. These home institutions, in which
  these able and faithful men assiduously give themselves and their
  lives to the building up and development of the intelligence--and
  not only that, but of the moral side of your young men--are bulwarks
  of strength to your State and to your community. They cannot be too
  highly esteemed and honored by you; because, my countrymen, kings may
  rule over an ignorant people, and by their iron control hold them in
  subjection and in the quietness of tyranny, but a free land rests
  upon the intelligence of its people, and has no other safety than in
  well-grounded education and thorough moral training. [Cries of "Good!
  Good!" and applause.] Again I thank you for this cordial greeting
  which Vermont gives me this morning, and to these comrades and friends
  I extend a comrade's greeting and good wishes. [Applause.]




VERGENNES, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


At Vergennes a large and joyful crowd greeted the distinguished
traveller. The Reception Committee comprised Hon. J. G. Hindes, Mayor of
the city; Hon. J. D. Smith, Herrick Stevens, and J. N. Norton.

Secretary Proctor introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I have had, as you know, some experience in
  this business of speaking from the end of a railroad train. But it has
  seemed to me this morning that these Vermont towns are closer together
  than on any other route I have travelled. [Laughter.] Perhaps it is
  because your State is not very large, and you have had to put your
  towns close together in order to get them all in. [Laughter.] I have
  heard an interesting story of the origin of this city of Vergennes.
  I suppose it was one of the earliest instances in the history of our
  country, if not the very first, of a city being constructed upon paper
  before it was built upon the ground. [Laughter.] That has come to be
  quite a familiar practice in these late days of speculation, but it
  is singular that a city charter and the ample corporate limits of one
  mile square should have been given to Vergennes before this century
  began. If the expectations of the founder of this city have not been
  realized fully, you have more than realized all the thoughts of Ethan
  Allan and his contemporaries in the greatness and prosperity of your
  State and in the richer glory and higher greatness of the Nation of
  which you are a part. [Cheers.]

  I am glad this morning to look into the contented faces of another
  audience of New England people. You were greatly disparaged in the
  estimation of some of our people before the Civil War. There had
  spread unfortunately over the minds of our Southern brethren the
  impression that you were so much given to money, to thrift, and
  to toil that your hands had forgotten how to fight. It was a most
  wholesome lesson when the whole country learned again in the gallant
  charges and stubborn resistances of the Vermont Brigade that the
  old New England spirit still lived; that Paul Revere still rode the
  highways of New England; and that the men of Concord and Lexington
  and Bennington still ploughed her fields. [Applause.] I am glad to
  meet you this bright, joyous morning; and I am sure, in view of the
  fatigues that have preceded and that are to follow, you will excuse
  me from further speech, and accept my most heartfelt thanks for your
  friendliness. [Applause.]




BURLINGTON, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


Burlington gave the President a royal reception Tuesday noon. The Queen
City was elaborately decorated, and all business was suspended during
the demonstration. The distinguished visitors were welcomed by Senator
George F. Edmunds, his honor Mayor Hazelton, Col. Le Grand B. Cannon,
Hon. E. J. Phelps, Gen. William Wells, ex-Gov. U. A. Woodbury, Hon. B.
B. Smalley, Hon. G. G. Benedict, C. F. Wheeler, ex-Governor Barstow, C.
W. Woodhouse, and Elias Lyman, President of the Board of Aldermen. After
luncheon at the home of Senator Edmunds, the President was escorted
through the Fletcher Library to a platform fronting the park, where
20,000 people greeted him.

Mayor Hazelton delivered the address of welcome and introduced President
Harrison, who responded as follows:

  _Mr. Mayor and Fellow-citizens_--I am not a little intimidated as I
  face so unexpectedly this vast concourse of the citizens of this great
  State of Vermont. I say great, though your territorial extent does not
  place you among large States; great in an origin that gave occasion
  for an early and resolute expression of that love of liberty which
  has always pervaded your people; great in a population that has never
  bowed the knee to the arrogance of power or to the blandishments of
  wealth, and has, through all the history of the State, maintained the
  inspiration of its early annals for love of personal independence. I
  rejoice to be present to-day at the home of one of your distinguished
  public servants, with whom it was my good fortune for a time to be
  associated in the discharge of public duties. I am glad to see here,
  at his own home, the respect and honor in which George F. Edmunds
  is deservedly held by the people of Vermont. [Applause.] Having for
  six years witnessed the value of his services as a legislator in the
  Senate of the United States, I share with you the regret that this
  country is no longer to enjoy those services; though it is a source
  of gratification to you, as it is to me, to know that in his love and
  loyalty to the State that he has so highly honored, in his love and
  loyalty to the Union of States, there will be no call for his wise
  counsel and help that will not find a ready response from the walks of
  life which he has chosen to resume. [Applause.]

  My fellow-citizens, it is true, as your Mayor has said, happily
  true, that we not infrequently, and with ease, lift ourselves above
  all the contentions of party strife and stand in the clear, inspiring
  and stimulating sunshine as American patriots. [Applause.] We are
  conspicuously a people who give their allegiance to institutions and
  not to men. [Applause.] It were a happy thing for others of our sister
  republics on this hemisphere if they could follow this great example.
  Our people are not slow to appreciate public services. They are not
  reluctant to acknowledge transcendent genius, but they give their
  loyalty as citizens to institutions, and not to parties or to men.
  [Applause.] This was happily shown in our great rebellion, when party
  divisions, that seemed to lift barriers between us like these mountain
  peaks, were obliterated in a moment by that love for the Constitution
  and the flag which pervaded all our people [applause]--a love that
  made the people of all these great States one; that sent from Vermont
  and Massachusetts, as from Indiana, those stalwart and devoted sons
  who offered--many of them gave--their lives for the perpetuity of the
  Union and the honor of the flag. Let us pursue our lines of division.
  It is characteristic of a free people--it is essential--that mental
  agitation and unrest out of which the highest and best is evolved. But
  let us never forget that the fundamental thought of our Government
  is the rule of the majority, lawfully expressed at pure and clean
  elections, and that, when thus expressed, the laws enacted by those
  chosen to make our laws are not less of the minority than of the
  majority. [Applause.] Those who make the laws are our servants, to
  whom we yield the respect of office and that measure of personal
  regard to which their lives may entitle them. [Applause.]

  We are this year a most favored and happy people. Drouth has blasted
  the crops of many of the nations of the world. Most of the peoples
  of Europe are short of food. And God has this year, mercifully to
  us, mercifully to them, made our store-houses to burst with plenty.
  We have a great surplus of breadstuffs, and there is not a bushel of
  wheat, corn, rye or oats that will not find a ready market this year.
  Happy are we in this great prosperity; happy that again out of your
  abundance the lack of other peoples may be supplied. Let us be careful
  that our heads are not turned by too much prosperity. It has been out
  of hardness, out of struggles, out of self-denials, out of that thrift
  and economy which was an incident of your soil, that the best things
  in New England have come. [Applause.] And, while thankful to God for a
  season that diffuses its blessings as this sweet sunshine is diffused
  into all our homes, let us remember that it is not, after all, riches
  that exalt the Nation. It is a pure, clean, high, intellectual, moral,
  and God-fearing citizenship that is our glory and security as a
  Nation. [Applause.]

  Let me thank you again for the friendliness of your manifestations,
  for the opportunity to stand for a few moments in this most
  beautiful city. [Applause.] You have the advantage of many of our
  municipalities. You have not only the beauties of these groves and
  gardens and pleasant streets and lovely homes, but from these hilltops
  you have laid under contribution fifty miles in either direction to
  beautify Burlington. [Applause.] I thank you, and part with you with
  regret that my stay cannot be longer and my intercourse with you more
  personal and informal. [Applause.]




ST. ALBANS, VERMONT, AUGUST 25.


The President and party embarked at Burlington on board Col. W. Seward
Webb's yacht _Elfrida_ and greatly enjoyed the sail on Lake Champlain,
landing at Maquam in the evening, whence a special train carried them
to St. Albans, where they were welcomed by the Committee of Reception,
consisting of Hon. A. D. Tenney, George T. Childs, Alfred A. Hall, T. M.
Deal, W. Tracy Smith, B. F. Kelley, A. L. Weeks, and A. W. Fuller. After
dining at Governor Smith's the President, at 9 P.M., was escorted to the
Welden House, fronting St. Albans Park. Twelve thousand people greeted
him. The scene was one of unusual beauty; from the branching elms hung
2,000 Chinese lanterns.

When the President appeared on the balcony the enthusiasm was great. He
was introduced by Hon. E. C. Smith, and spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I fear that my voice will not permit me
  suitably to acknowledge this magnificent demonstration. In the tour
  which I made this spring across the continent I witnessed very many
  great assemblages and looked upon very many brilliant and entrancing
  scenes, but I recall none outside the greater cities more beautiful
  and worthy than this in St. Albans to-night. [Applause.] Most deeply
  do I feel whatever of personal respect you thus evidence, and yet more
  highly do I appreciate that love of American institutions, that fealty
  to the flag, which I am sure is the dominant impulse in this great
  assembly. [Applause.]

  Your situation upon this great water line connecting the St.
  Lawrence with the Hudson was an early suggestion to the trader as
  well as to the invader. The Indian canoe, the boat of the fur-trader,
  ploughed these waters in the early days of our history. At a later
  time they suggested to the military leaders of Great Britain who
  commanded the armies sent for the subjection of the colonies that
  familiar strategy of severing the colonies into two parts by moving
  and establishing posts upon Champlain and the Hudson. These attempts
  and the brave resistance which was made by our people, in which
  Vermont had so conspicuous and creditable a part, have made all the
  shores of Lake Champlain historic ground. In the address delivered
  by President Bartlett in 1877 at the observance of the centennial of
  the battle of Bennington, I noticed that he said, "Trading Manchester
  sent two regiments to conquer a market," and it recalled to my mind
  the fact that one of the great motives of resistance on the part of
  the colonies was the unjust trade restrictions and exactions which
  were imposed upon them by the mother country in order to secure the
  American markets for the British manufacturer. You recall how severe
  and persistent were the measures adopted in order to repress and crush
  out the establishment of manufacturing industries in the colonies.
  This battle for a market was never more general or more strenuous than
  now among all of the nations of the world, though now generally not
  pushed to bloodshed. [Applause.] All of the countries of the Old World
  have through colonial extension by the division of Africa, much as a
  boy might divide a watermelon among his fellows, had reference largely
  to trade extensions and enlarged markets. In this contest we have
  ourselves engaged, not by attempting to push our political domain into
  lands that are not rightfully ours, not by attempting to overthrow or
  subjugate the weaker but friendly powers of this hemisphere, but by
  those methods of peaceful and profitable interchange which are good
  for them as for us, [Cries of "Good! good!" and applause.] Secure in
  the great American market for our manufactures--a market the best
  per capita of any in the world--we have come now to believe that
  we may well extend our trade and send our manufactured products to
  other countries across the seas and in ships carrying the American
  flag. [Cries of "Good! good!" and applause.] We do not need in any
  degree to break down or injure our own domestic industries. We are
  consuming, to an enormous extent, of tropical products not produced
  by our people, and by a fair exchange with the nations sending us
  sugar, tea, and coffee we propose and have entered successfully upon
  the enterprise of opening the markets of Central and South America to
  the manufacturing establishments of New England and the United States.
  [Cries of "Good! good!" and applause.]

  I am sure every American will rejoice in the success which has
  thus far attended these efforts, and will rejoice that with this
  expanding trade to the southward there opens before us this year a
  largely increased traffic in agricultural products with the nations
  of Europe. We have never in the history of our country harvested such
  a crop as has now been gathered into the granaries of the United
  States. [Applause.] We shall have an enormously large surplus of
  breadstuffs for exportation, and it happens that in this period of
  our abundance crop failures or shortages in India, in Russia, in
  France, in Germany, and England have opened a market that will require
  the last bushel of grain we have to sell. [Cries of "Good! good!"
  and applause.] Rejoicing in the peace that pervades our land, proud
  of institutions which have for more than a hundred years witnessed
  their adequacy to give peace and security at home and to preserve our
  National honor abroad, rejoicing in the great increase of material
  wealth which is flowing in upon us, may we not on these great lines
  of enterprise, lifting ourselves now to newer and larger thoughts of
  what this country may be, enter upon these opening avenues of trade
  and influence upon which are the beckoning invitations of friendly
  peoples? [Applause.]

  Let me thank you again for this magnificent assemblage of Vermont
  patriots and of Vermont women, who have shared with her gallant men
  the sacrifices and suffering that this State has borne that it might
  be born among the States, and, having been admitted to the sisterhood,
  might, though small in geographical extent and population, bear a
  noble and honorable part in the work of holding up the American
  character and defending the American flag. [Great applause.]




RICHMOND, VERMONT, AUGUST 26.


President Harrison passed the night at St. Albans. On his departure,
the morning of the 26th, he was accompanied by Secretary Proctor,
ex-Governor Smith and wife, Colonel and Mrs. E. C. Smith, Tracy Smith,
Hon. H. H. Powers, Henry R. Start, D. Sage McKay, Col. Geo. T. Childs,
and Col. M. J. Horton, of Governor Page's staff.

The first stop of the day was at Richmond, where a large audience
greeted the party. Among the prominent citizens who received the
President were: Judge E. B. Andrews, Hon. U. S. Whitcomb, Capt. G. A.
Edwards, Dr. C. W. Jacobs, Hon. H. A. Hodges, C. P. Rhodes and Edgar T.
Jacobs. The veterans of Bronson Barber Post, G. A. R., were present in a
body.

Congressman Powers introduced the President, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--It is a little early in the morning to begin
  the daily round of speech-making, and yet I cannot refrain from saying
  to you how highly I appreciate your morning welcome. There is the
  tonic of your fine mountain air and the glory of your sunshine in
  these cordial manifestations of your respect and good-will. I hope
  no American citizen will ever begrudge the President of the United
  States the refreshment which comes from these occasional visits
  through the country, and from that draught of good-will which he
  receives as he looks into the faces and takes the hands of these
  good people, who have no other interest in the Government than that
  it shall be honestly administered for the general good. Washington
  is not always full of that kind of people; we are more certain,
  perhaps, to find them in the country. And yet no one should complain
  of honest criticism, and perhaps fault-finding has its use, for
  occasionally it must be well grounded and disclose to us errors we
  might otherwise have failed to discern. But, after all, the bracing
  of the good-will of the good people of this country is very essential
  to those who, in the midst of great perplexity and doubt and under
  staggering responsibility, endeavor as they see the right to do it.
  No man can do more than this, and I look upon this popular feature
  of our Government, the readiness of communication, the nearness
  and familiarity of access which the people have with all public
  servants, as a great safeguard to those who might otherwise become
  separated from those impulses which are, after all, the safest and
  best. [Applause.] I have had great pleasure in passing through your
  beautiful valley this morning. I can most sincerely commend what I see
  in these farms and thrifty homes. Vermont is a mountain State, and, I
  suppose, because your horizon is a little high you are more frequently
  than we who live on the plains compelled to look up. That may account
  for a great many of the good things which we discover in the New
  England character. I thank you for your kindness. [Applause.]




WATERBURY, VERMONT, AUGUST, 26.


Waterbury was reached at 10:30 A.M. Governor Page and Hon. W. W. Grout
joined the party here. About 10,000 people were assembled to greet
the President, prominent among whom were: G. E. Moody, Esq., Hon. G.
W. Rundall, Hon. E. F. Palmer, M. M. Knight, George W. Atkins, John
Batchelder, L. H. Haines, Justin W. Moody, C. C. Warren, W. R. Elliott,
C. H. Arms, Charles Wells, Dr. Henry Janes, and F. H. Atherton.

Hon. Wm. Paul Dillingham made the welcoming address and introduced the
President, who responded as follows:

  _My Friends_--It is very pleasant to know that a public officer may
  travel everywhere through this great land of ours--and only those who
  have traversed it can understand how great it is--and find always
  his sure defence and care in the good-will and respect of the people
  who surround him. If we bar out the irresponsible crank, so far as I
  can see the President is in no peril, except that he may be killed
  by the superabundant kindness of the people. [Laughter.] There seems
  to be an impression that his strength and capacity for speech-making
  is unfailing [laughter] and that his arm is a hickory limb. But it
  is very kind of you and all these good, people of Vermont who have
  met me on this journey to express so pleasantly by your cheers, and
  much more by your kindly faces, the love and loyalty you have for
  those in the situation with which the suffrage of the people has for
  the time connected me. The New England character is one that has
  been much written about, much discussed, and I think that even those
  who have found points for the sharpest criticism have, when they
  adopted the Yankee method of averages, concluded that the influences
  emanating from Plymouth Rock and diffusing themselves first through
  the New Hampshire Grants and then the Western Reserve of Ohio, and
  so scattering and disseminating the seeds of intelligence and love
  of liberty throughout the whole land, have been good for the whole
  country. The New England man is a man with his eye open everywhere.
  I have sometimes thought that the habit of attention, of giving the
  whole mind to the business in hand, had its very natural origin and
  development in New England agriculture. The man who holds a plough in
  a stumpy or stony ground learns the lesson that he had better give
  his mind to the business in hand. [Laughter.] Otherwise the revenge
  and punishments for inattention are so prompt and severe that he is
  quickly called back from any mental wanderings into which he may
  have fallen. I had occasion to say a moment ago that the fact that
  the mountain regions of the world had always furnished the bravest
  champions of liberty and the most strenuous defenders of the faith was
  possibly owing to the fact that their horizon was so high that if they
  looked at all they were compelled to look up. [Laughter and applause.]

  My countrymen, we have a great and happy land--a people dwelling in
  happy homes, and that is the origin of government, and there is the
  essential of a contented citizenship. As long as we can preserve this
  independence and self-respect, and that degree of comfort in the home
  that makes it a pleasant abode when the day's toil is ended, and that
  enables by the most careful thrift the head of the household to lay by
  for the family and to lighten in some measure the care and labor of
  the children that are to follow him, there can be no happier land than
  ours. If we would perpetuate and secure that which we have had handed
  down to us and which we have so well preserved until this hour, this
  is the essential thing.

  I thank you for this kindly greeting, and beg you to accept my
  sincerest good-will. I can say nothing of public affairs. Every man
  called to public office is subject to the infirmities that belong to
  our nature--the capacity to make mistakes. He can be, if he is true,
  sure of one thing--that in all that he does he has it in his mind to
  do the best he can for all the people. [Prolonged cheers.]




MONTPELIER, VERMONT, AUGUST 26.


A great throng greeted the President's arrival at the Vermont capital.
He was met by a Reception Committee consisting of 15 prominent citizens:
Col. Fred E. Smith, Hon. Charles Dewey, Prof. J. A. DeBoer, J. C.
Houghton, M. E. Smilie, L. Bart Cross, G. H. Gurnsey, T. C. Phinney,
H. W. Kemp, D. F. Long, C. P. Pitkin, J. W. Brock, George Wing, F.
W. Morse, and Thomas Marvin. The First Regiment N. G. V., commanded
by Adjutant-General Peck, with the Sons of Veterans, escorted the
President and Governor Page to the State House, the former walking the
entire distance with uncovered head, surrounded by a guard of honor
detailed from George Crook Post, G. A. R. From the Governor's Room they
were conducted to the hall of the House of Representatives, where the
Legislature of Vermont was assembled in joint session. The members arose
and remained standing until the Chief Magistrate was seated between
Governor Page and Lieutenant-Governor Fletcher.

After the applause subsided the Lieutenant-Governor introduced President
Harrison, who addressed the legislators as follows:

  _Mr. President and Gentlemen, the Legislature of the State of
  Vermont_--I am grateful to you for this cordial reception, which
  crowns a series of friendly demonstrations which began with my entry
  into this good State and have continued to this interesting and
  important occasion. I am glad to meet the chosen representatives of
  the towns of Vermont, appointed to the discharge of functions of
  legislating for the general good. The wisdom of our fathers devised
  that system of governmental division for the general Government which
  has found adoption or adaptation in all the States--the division of
  the powers of the Government into three great co-ordinate departments,
  each independent, and yet having close and important relations one
  with the other, and each adapted in the highest degree to secure the
  liberty of the individual, the welfare of our community, and the
  national honor and prosperity. [Applause.] It has been fortunate for
  us as a people that no serious clash has occurred to these great
  departments. The constitutional balance and counterbalance have
  preserved with marvellous exactness, with the perfection of the most
  perfect machinery, the relations of these several departments, each
  doing its appropriate work and producing the great result which had
  been intended. Surely there is no other country where the springs
  of government are higher than here. The impulses of our people are
  drawn from springs that lie high in the hills of duty and loyalty.
  They respect and obey the law, because it is the orderly expression
  of their own will. The compact of our Government is a rule by the
  majority.

  The sanction of all law is that it is the expression by popular
  election of the will of a majority of our people. Law has no other
  sanction than that with us; and happy are we, and happy are those
  communities where the election methods are so honestly and faithfully
  prescribed and observed that no doubt is thrown upon the popular
  expression and no question of the integrity of the ballot is ever
  raised. [Applause.] If we shall ever or anywhere allow a doubt to
  settle into the minds of our people whether the results of our
  elections are honestly attained, whether the laws made are framed by
  those who have been properly chosen by the majority, then all sanction
  is withdrawn from law and all respect from the rulers who by a false
  ballot are placed in public office. [Applause.]

  I am glad to congratulate you upon your constituencies, intelligent,
  devoted and patriotic. I am glad to congratulate you that the State
  of Vermont, from its earliest aspirations and efforts for liberty
  and self-government, which developed into your Constitution in 1777,
  down through all the story of toil and the struggles which have beset
  you as a State, and the vicissitudes which have beset the country of
  which you are an honored part, that the State of Vermont and her sons
  in the councils of the Nation and on the blood-stained battle-fields
  of the great war have borne themselves worthily. [Applause.] Will you
  permit me now to thank you again for this demonstration and for the
  opportunity to stand for a moment in your presence? I am sure that we
  may each, from this occasion, in the discharge of public duty, draw
  some impulse to a more perfect exercise of our powers for the public
  good. [Applause.]


_The Public Reception._

The speech-making within doors being over, President Harrison entered
a side room, where he received the Tippecanoe Club, shaking hands
cordially with all. He was then conducted to the Governor's Room,
where he received the members of the Legislature. Meanwhile a great
crowd massed on the beautiful grounds and waited impatiently for the
reappearance of the President. Finally he made his way from the interior
to the front of the Capitol. Governor Page introduced him. The President
spoke as follows:

  _Governor Page and Fellow-citizens_--This sunshine is as warm as a
  Vermont welcome. [Applause.] It is of the highest quality. It has life
  in it. But too much of it is prostrating. [Laughter.] I have felt, in
  endeavoring to respond to these calls, that I was possibly overtaxing
  my own strength, and perhaps overcrowding the Press Association.
  [Laughter.] I am not naturally a gossip, I think I had some reputation
  as a taciturn man, but it is gone. [Laughter.] I have not given it up
  willingly. I have struggled to retain it, but it has been forcefully
  taken from me by kindness of my fellow-citizens, whom I have met so
  frequently within the last year. Perhaps, however, if I preserve other
  virtues I can let this go. [Laughter.] It is a great thing to be a
  citizen of the United States. I would not have you abate at all the
  love and loyalty you have for Vermont. But I am glad to know that
  always in your history as a State and a people you have felt that the
  higher honor, the more glorious estate, was to be a citizen of the
  United States of America. [Applause.] This association of States is a
  geographical necessity. We can never consent that hostile boundaries
  shall be introduced with all that such divisions imply. We must be one
  from Maine to California, one from the Lakes to the Gulf [applause],
  and everywhere in all that domain we must insist that the behests
  of the Federal Constitution and of the laws written in the Federal
  statute-book shall be loyally obeyed. [Applause.] A statesman of one
  of the Southern States said to me, with tears in his eyes, shortly
  after my inauguration: "Mr. President, I hope you intend to give the
  poor people of my State a chance." I said in reply: "A chance to do
  what? If you mean, sir, that they shall have a chance to nullify
  any law, and that I shall wink at the nullification of it, you ask
  that which you ought not to ask and that which I cannot consider.
  [Applause.] If you mean that obeying every public law and giving to
  every other man his full rights under the law and the Constitution,
  they shall abide in my respect and in the security and peace of our
  institutions. Then they shall have, so far as in my power lies, an
  equal chance with all our people." [Applause.] We may not choose
  what laws we will obey; the choice is made for us. When a majority
  have, by lawful methods, placed a law upon the statute-book, we may
  endeavor to repeal it, we may challenge its wisdom, but while it is
  the law it challenges our obedience. [Applause.]

  I thank you for the kindliness of this greeting in this capital of
  Vermont. I wish for you and your gallant State and for all your people
  in all their good, God-fearing homes continuance of that personal
  liberty, that material prosperity, that love of the truth which has
  always characterized them. [Applause.]




PLAINFIELD, VERMONT, AUGUST 26.


At Montpelier the President's party was joined by Hon. F. A. Dwinnel,
Gen. F. E. Alfred, Gen. W. H. Gilmore, V. R. Sartwell, W. A. Stowell,
Col. H. E. Folsom, Fletcher D. Proctor, Frank C. Partridge; also, E. W.
Smith and John Bailey, of Newbury.

The first stop in the afternoon was at Plainfield, where 1,000 people
gave the President a cordial greeting. Among the leading citizens
participating in the reception were: Joseph Lane, George D. Kidder,
Leroy F. Fortney, E. J. Bartlett, H. E. Cutler, Henry Q. Perry, D. B.
Smith, H. G. Moore, John A. Fass, Ira F. Page, Nelson Shorey, H. W.
Batchelder, and W. B. Page. W. E. Martin Post, G. A. R., H. H. Hollister
Commander, occupied a conspicuous position.

President Harrison was introduced by Senator Dwinnel, and said:

  _My Fellow-citizens and Comrades_--For I see here, as everywhere,
  some of those who wore the blue and carried the flag in the great
  Civil War gathered to greet me. It gives me pleasure to stop for a
  moment and to thank you for the friendliness which has brought you
  from your homes to make this journey bright with your presence and
  cordial welcome. I have been talking so much to-day that I will not
  attempt to make a speech. I have already said a great deal about
  Vermont, have expressed my esteem for it and for its people, and all
  that. I have been very sincere, for I think that your State does hold
  a very high place among the States. Your sons, who have gone out to
  represent you and to take part in those stirring enterprises which
  have laid the foundations of new States, have already borne themselves
  with honor and with true New England thrift, obtaining in the long
  run the full share of all the good things that were going. I met some
  of them in California. They are scattered this broad land over, and I
  think they carry with them everywhere the love of the flag, respect
  for law and order, love of liberty and of education, and interest in
  all those things that make the communities where they abide prosperous
  and happy. I think I owe a special debt to this neighborhood for a
  pair of good Vermont horses that Secretary Proctor selected for me,
  and in the driving of which I have had great relaxation and pleasure.
  Your Vermont horses are well trained. The Morgan horse has the good
  habit of entering into consultation with the driver whenever there is
  any trouble. [Laughter and applause.]




ST. JOHNSBURY, VERMONT, AUGUST 26.


Brief stops were made at Wells River, McIndoes, and Barnet, and the
President cordially thanked the people at each place. St. Johnsbury,
where great preparations were made to welcome the distinguished guest,
was reached at 4:30 P.M.

The President's party headed a procession which moved through the
principal streets over a distance of two miles. The guard of honor
consisted of 300 mounted veterans with drawn swords. The following
prominent citizens met the President: Col. Franklin Fairbanks, Hon.
Jonathan Ross, Chief Justice of Vermont, and Mrs. Ross; Rev. Dr. C. M.
Lamson, L. D. Hazen, A. H. McLeod, Charles T. Walter, Hon. H. H. Powers,
Col. Frederick Fletcher, H. H. Carr, C. H. Stevens, E. H. Blossom, S. H.
Brackett, Lucius K. Hazen, Osborne Chase, George H. Cross, N. P. Bowman,
Albert Worcester, H. I. Woods, Dr. G. B. Bullard, A. F. Walker, C. P.
Carpenter, N. R. Switser, F. A. Carter, L. W. Fisher, J. B. Gage, C.
H. Horton, L. N. Smythe, and Wm. H. Sargent. An incident of the parade
was the reception by the school children. The President's carriage
halted and several hundred of the children, led by H. H. May, rendered
"America," at the conclusion of which six pretty little girls--Misses
May Masten, Lala McNeil, Marian Moore, Lottie Holder, Beatrice May,
and Emma May--stepped forward and presented a beautiful floral key,
thus tendering the freedom of the city to the illustrious guest. The
President reviewed the procession from "Undercliffe," the stately
residence of Colonel and Mrs. Fairbanks, whose guest he was.

At night the town was brilliantly illuminated, and 10,000 residents
gathered in the public park. Colonel Fairbanks made the welcoming
address and introduced the President, who received an ovation and spoke
as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I could wish that I were in better voice and
  in full strength, that I might better respond to this most magnificent
  demonstration. I have rarely looked upon a scene more calculated
  to inspire a patriot than this upon which my eye rests to-night. I
  do most profoundly thank you for this great welcome. The taste and
  beauty and elaboration of these preparations exceed anything that I
  have looked upon in this journey. [Applause.] I am sure you are here
  to-night after making all this preparation to give witness by your
  presence of your love to the flag of our country [applause] and to
  those institutions of civil government and of liberty which that flag
  represents. [Applause.] It gives me great pleasure to see that the
  flag is everywhere. I journeyed across this continent, and, except
  when darkness shut in the landscape, I was never out of sight of the
  American flag. [Applause.] On those wide plains of the West, once
  called the Great American Desert, now and again, in the home of some
  adventurous settler, the flag appeared and was waved in greeting as
  our train sped on its way. I rejoiced to see it everywhere in the
  sight of school children. On that great demonstration in New York in
  observance of the centennial of the inauguration of Washington, as I
  moved from the Battery up through those streets dedicated to commerce,
  I saw every front covered with flags, hiding for the time those
  invitations to trade which covered their walls. The thought occurred
  to me, What will be done with these flags when this celebration is
  over? And it occurred to me to suggest at the centennial banquet
  that the flags should be taken into our school-houses. [Applause.]
  I rejoice to know that everywhere throughout the land, in all our
  patriotic towns and villages, movements are being inaugurated to
  display the American flag over our institutions of learning.

  I have several times been brought in contact with incidents showing
  this love of the flag. I remember that when Hood was investing
  Nashville, and when that gallant, sturdy, unostentatious, but always
  faithful and victorious leader, Gen. George H. Thomas, was gathering
  the remnants of an army that he might confront his adversary in
  battle, it was assigned to me to intrench through the beautiful
  grounds of a resident in the suburbs of Nashville. The proprietor was
  a Tennessee Unionist. While I was digging and tearing the sod of his
  beautiful lawn, he was removing his library and other valuables from
  his mansion, for it was within easy range of the rebel fire. Happening
  into his library while he was thus engaged, he opened a closet below
  the book-shelf, and, taking out a handsome bunting, asked me whether I
  had a garrison flag. I told him no. "Well," he said, "take this. Sir,
  I have never been without the American flag in my house." [Applause.]
  I would be glad if that could be said by every one of our people.
  There is inspiration in it. It has a story wrought into its every fold
  until every thread has some lesson to tell of sacrifice and heroism.
  It is the promise of all that we hope for. It is to it and about it
  that we must gather and hold the affections of our people if these
  institutions are to be preserved. I have it in my mind as I saw it one
  night in Newport harbor. Going out of that harbor upon a Government
  vessel about midnight, when the heavens were darkened clouds, I saw
  a sight that lives fresh in my memory. The officers of the torpedo
  station had run up the Starry Banner upon the staff, and turned upon
  it as we moved out of the harbor two great electric search-lights. It
  revealed the banner, while the staff and buildings below it were all
  hidden in the blackness. I could see it as if it had been hung out
  of the battlements of heaven, lifting its folds in the darkness of
  night, a glorified emblem of the hope of a free people. [Applause.]
  Let us keep it thus in our hearts; let no other flag be borne in our
  marching processions. We have no place for the red flag of anarchy.
  [Applause.] This emblem typifies a free people, who have voluntarily
  placed themselves under the restraints of the law, who have consented
  that individual liberty shall cease where it infringes upon the right
  or property of another. This is our contract. This is the liberty
  which we offer those who cast in their lot with us, not a liberty to
  destroy, but a liberty to conserve and perpetuate. [Cheers.]

  I am most happy to witness in this prosperous New England town so
  many evidences that your community is intelligent, industrious,
  enterprising, and your people lovers of home and order. You have here
  some great manufacturing establishments, whose fame and products have
  spread throughout the world. You have here a class of enterprising,
  public-spirited citizens, who are building these free libraries and
  galleries of art and are ministering to the good of generations that
  are to come. You have here an intelligent and educated class of
  skilled workmen, and nothing pleased me more as I passed through your
  streets to-day than to be told that here and there were the homes of
  the working people of St. Johnsbury [applause]--homes where every
  evidence of comfort was apparent; homes where taste has been brought
  to make attractive the abodes where tired men sought rest; homes that
  must have been made sweet for the children that are reared there,
  and comfortable for the wives whose place of toil and responsibility
  it is. Here is the anchor of our safety. This is the state that
  binds men to good order, to good citizenship, to the flag of the
  Constitution, a contented and prosperous working class. [Applause.]
  I will not cross any lines of division in my remarks to night, for
  this reception is general; but I will venture to say that all our
  public policy, all our legislation, may wisely keep in view the end
  of perpetuating an independent, contented, prosperous and hopeful
  working class in America. [Applause.] When hope goes out of the heart
  and life becomes so hard that it is no longer sweet, men are not safe
  neighbors and they are not good citizens, Let us, then, in cheerful,
  loving, Christian good neighborhood see that the blessings of our
  institutions, the fruits of labor, have that fair distribution that
  shall bring contentment into our homes. [Applause.]

  But, my countrymen, I did not intend to speak even so long. I wish
  it were in my power to make some adequate return for the generous
  welcome you have given me. I am not a man of promises. I abhor
  pretension, but every such assembly as this that I see--this great cup
  of good-will which you put to my lips--gives me strength to do what I
  can for our country and for you. [Applause.]




BILLINGS PARK, AUGUST 27.


When the presidential party left St. Johnsbury on the morning of the
27th, they were joined by Hon. A. A. Woolson, C. S. Forbes, ex-Governor
Farnham, and ex-Senator Pingree. At White River Junction the President's
car was switched to a siding running to Billings Park, where the Vermont
Association of Road and Trotting Horse Breeders was holding its annual
exhibition. Senator Morrill, Col. Geo. W. Hooker, and Capt. A. W. Davis
accompanied the party to the park, where carriages conveyed them over
the grounds. A large crowd was present.

Col. Hooker, as President of the Association, introduced President
Harrison, who said:

  _Colonel Hooker and Fellow-citizens_--I have been called upon to
  address my fellow-citizens under many diverse and some very peculiar
  circumstances, but I think that those that surround me this morning
  are absolutely unique. I understood that in the programme Secretary
  Proctor had arranged for a day of pleasure here at this horse fair,
  and that a more attractive entertainment was to be provided for you
  and for me than speech-making. I am not well up in the rules of the
  track, but I suppose on a morning like this some allowance will be
  made for a heavy track, and if the horses are entitled to it I think
  I may claim an allowance myself. [Laughter.] Therefore, I have only
  to thank you for the friendliness of your reception and to express
  my interest in this great industry which is represented here--the
  breeding of horses. I understand that it was so arranged that, after I
  had seen the flower of the manhood and womanhood of Vermont, I should
  be given an exhibition of the next grade in intelligence and worth in
  the State--your good horses. [Applause.] I have had recently, through
  the intervention of the Secretary of War, the privilege of coming into
  possession of a pair of Vermont horses. They are all I could wish for,
  and, as I said the other day at the little village from which they
  came, they are of good Morgan stock, of which some one has said that
  their great characteristic was that they enter into consultation with
  the driver whenever there is any difficulty. [Laughter and applause.]
  Thanking you again, I hope you will give me the allowance to which a
  heavy track entitles me. [Applause.]




BRADFORD, VERMONT, AUGUST 27.


At Bradford 1,000 people assembled to do honor to the President, who
arrived at 10 A.M. The visitors were escorted to a platform near the
station. Among the prominent residents who welcomed the Chief Executive
were H. E. Parker, Judge S. M. Gleason, Roswell Farnham, John H. Watson,
Dr. J. H. Jones, and L. J. Brown.

Ex-Governor Farnham introduced the President, who spoke as follows:

  _Ladies and Gentlemen_--I will only say a few words to thank you for
  this welcome which is extended to me this morning, and which it seems
  to me furnishes some proof of your well wishes and kindly feelings. I
  have had a journey through Vermont that will be very pleasant in my
  recollection, although attended with some instances of an unpleasant
  nature. As I understood the purpose of this trip when I gave my
  assent to it at the request of your excellent fellow-citizen, whom
  you kindly loaned me for a little while, and are now, as far as I can
  see, about to reclaim, the trip was to be one of relaxation, and to
  visit him and some of his friends. It seems to me that the circle has
  been enlarged beyond the limit of his friends, and if not that they
  include the whole of the people of Vermont. It is very pleasant to
  pass through your enterprising manufacturing towns, and to see this
  rural population, which, after all, is the foundation of all State
  organizations, which are based upon the farms of old New England. The
  farm has been, perhaps, one of the most productive measures toward
  the enrichment of this country in things that are greater than the
  material things--in manhood, valor in warfare, and statesmanship in
  political life. It has been a matter of great pleasure to me as we
  have driven through the streets of these cities, from Bennington until
  this time, to observe one thing. As we pass by your streets I have
  seen some aged father or mother or grandfather or grandmother placed
  in a position for best observation and kindly attended by some member
  of the family, showing that family love, that veneration for the aged,
  that has, to me, been a source of particular gratification. For, after
  all, the home is the beginning and centre of all good things. The
  life of our Nation is learned in the first rudiments of government
  at home and that lesson of veneration for things that are good. With
  these elements I think you are sure to make the career of Vermont not
  greater in temporary things, but greater in those things which are
  more productive to the Nation and to mankind. [Prolonged cheers.]




WINDSOR, VERMONT, AUGUST 27.


It was raining when the President arrived at Windsor, at 1 P.M. He was
met by Senator William M. Evarts, accompanied by Hon. C. C. Beaman,
of New York; Hon. Chester Pike, of Cornish, N. H., and the following
prominent citizens, comprising the local Committee of Reception: Col.
Marsh O. Perkins, Dwight Tuxbury, Hon. G. A. Davis, Dr. C. P. Holden,
Dr. J. S. Richmond, U. L. Comings, George T. Low, Hon. Rollin Amsden,
E. C. Howard, Charles H. Fitch, O. L. Patrick, Rev. E. N. Goddard, S.
N. Stone, S. R. Bryant, J. M. Howe, George T. Hazen, S. M. Blood, S. E.
Hoisington, Horace Weston, A. E. Houghton, A. J. Hunter, Allen Dudley,
Dr. Deane Richmond, J. R. Brewster, A. D. Cotton, G. R. Guernsey,
Charles N. Adams, Col. M. K. Paine, H. W. Stocker, George M. Stone,
Harvey Miller, George T. Winn, and C. D. Penniman.

After partaking of luncheon at the residence of Senator and Mrs. Evarts,
the President was conducted to the Town Hall, and, being introduced to
the assemblage by Colonel Perkins, he spoke as follows:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I am about completing a very pleasant trip
  through the State of Vermont--a trip which, while not the first,
  has furnished the only occasion on which I have really been brought
  in contact with the people of your State. My previous journeys were
  those of a summer tourist, snatching these fine and attractive views
  as we sped along some of your lines of railway, but getting little
  impression of the character of the people who occupy these towns and
  rural homesteads. It has given me great pleasure on this occasion
  to receive at the hands of your people everywhere a most cordial
  reception, It has been a source of constant regret to me that I am
  able on such occasions as we have here this afternoon to make so
  small a return for the care, preparation, and friendly interest which
  the people manifest. I am under such limitations as to them and
  about which I may talk that the fertility of a very rich and highly
  cultivated mind and imagination would be necessary to furnish one
  with something new or interesting to say in response to the repeated
  calls. I have supposed that all of these meetings were expressions
  of patriotism and of popular interest in a Government which Mr.
  Lincoln so felicitously described as "a government of the people, by
  the people, for the people." [Applause.] It is pleasant to have the
  personal esteem and respect of my fellow-citizens, but I have not
  thought of appropriating to myself these demonstrations. It is very
  gratifying to see a people in love with their civil institutions and
  with that glorious flag which typifies our diversity and our unity.
  [Applause.] I have said before that it seemed to me this is the
  essential element and base of every republican government, that the
  loyalty and love of the people should be given to our institutions
  and not to men. [Applause.] I think it is one element of discord and
  unhappiness in some of our sister republics that the minds of these
  patriotic and generous people are too much swayed by their admiration
  for men, that they are often swept away from the moorings of principle
  by the love of a leader. I have rejoiced to find everywhere in the
  State of Vermont what seemed to me to be a deep-seated, earnest
  patriotism. [Applause.] It is to be hoped that we may not soon have
  any call for such manifestations as you have given in the past on the
  battle-fields from Bennington to the surrender of Appomattox. [Cheers.]

  It is pleasant to be here to day at the home of my esteemed friend
  and your fellow-townsman, the Hon. William M. Evarts. [Applause.] I
  am glad that he has introduced into Vermont model farming [laughter
  and applause], and has shown you what the income of a large city
  law practice can do in the fertilization of a farm. [Laughter and
  applause.] He has assured me to-day that his farm yields a net income.
  I accept the statement of my host with absolute faith--and yet Mr.
  Evarts' reputation as a bookkeeper is not the best in the world.
  [Laughter and applause.] It is pleasant to see him and to be for a
  while in his genial presence, and to have this journey illuminated by
  a visit to his home. I hope he may dwell long with you in peace and
  honor, as he will always dwell in the honor and esteem of our whole
  people. [Applause.]




CHARLESTOWN, NEW HAMPSHIRE, AUGUST 27.


Notwithstanding the heavy downpour, 1,000 or more sturdy citizens of
historic old Charlestown welcomed the President to New Hampshire. The
Reception Committee consisted of Hon. George Olcott, George S. Bond,
Frank Finnigan, Col. Samuel Webber, Herbert W. Bond, and Frank W.
Hamlin. Lincoln Post, G. A. R., Lyman F. Partridge Commander, also
participated in the reception. Colonel Webber delivered an eloquent
address of welcome.

The President, responding, said:

  _Colonel Webber and Fellow-citizens_--I think it might be said
  to-day that New Hampshire has "gone wet," as they say when the
  election returns come in on a vote against prohibition. I am very much
  obliged to you for this extraordinary manifestation of your interest,
  for to stand in this downpour of rain is certainly an evidence that
  you have a most friendly interest in this little party of tourists,
  who touch in a journey through Vermont the mainspring of the State of
  New Hampshire. I have been talking about Vermont for the last two or
  three days, but if you will take the pains, in the comfort of your own
  homesteads, to read all the good things I have said about Vermont,
  and then understand that they are all said of New Hampshire, it will
  abbreviate my speech and will be expressive of my opinion of that
  sturdy, enterprising, masterful New England character which you share
  with them. [Applause.]




BELLOWS FALLS, VERMONT, AUGUST 27.


When the train arrived at Bellows Falls, the rain was pouring in
torrents and the President was conducted to the Opera House by the
veterans of E. H. Stoughton Post, G. A. R. The Committee of Reception
consisted of Hon. Wm. A. Russell, Hon. A. N. Swain, Judge L. M. Read,
Barnes Cannon, Jr., Wyman Flint, John T. Moore, C. W. Osgood, Thomas
E. O'Brien, George H. Babbitt, and Capt. Walter Taylor, the latter a
veteran of eighty years, who marshalled the hosts for Gen. Wm. Henry
Harrison in 1836 and '40. The building was packed.

Mr. Swain introduced President Harrison, who said:

  _My Fellow-citizens_--I will wait a moment until they turn out the
  footlights. They put a barrier between us, and I always prefer to get
  my light from above. [Applause.] We can only tarry in this busy city
  a few moments. The inclement character of the day has driven us to
  shelter, and the finding of a shelter has consumed some small part
  of the allotment of time which our schedule gives to you. I greatly
  appreciate the value and importance of these manufacturing centres,
  which are now, fortunately for us, not characteristic of New England
  alone, but are found west of the Ohio and of the Mississippi and of
  the Missouri. I am one of those who believe that in a diversification
  of pursuits we make most rapid increase in wealth and attain best
  social relations and development. I am one of those who believe
  that Providence did not set apart the United States to be a purely
  agricultural region, furnishing its surplus to supply the lack of
  other people of the world while they do all the manufacturing for us.
  I think there are suggestions in our very geographical position, and
  a great many of them in our history and experience, that we may well
  desire and reach for that condition in which we shall raise our own
  food and in which a manufacturing class, withdrawn from agriculture
  and other pursuits, shall furnish the farmer a market for his surplus
  near to his fields and gardens, while he exchanges with the farmer the
  products of the shop and the loom.

  I would not introduce politics. I do not intend to cross any lines
  of division, but I think we all agree, though we may differ as to
  the means by which it is to be done, that the nearer together the
  producer and the consumer can be brought the less waste there is in
  transportation and the greater the wealth. [Applause.] It is known
  to you all that our 65,000,000 people furnish per capita a larger
  market than any other like number of people. This grows out of the
  fact that our capacity for purchasing is larger than is found in those
  countries where poverty holds a larger sway. The workingman buys
  more, has more to buy with in America than in any other land in the
  world. [Applause.] I mentioned the other day at St. Albans that this
  was the era of the battle for a market. The whole world is engaged in
  it. The thought was suggested to me by a sentence in the address of
  President Bartlett at the observance of the centennial of the battle
  of Bennington in 1877. He says, "Trading Manchester furnished two
  regiments to Burgoyne to conquer a market." The foreign policy of
  the United States has never been selfish. There has always been, if
  you will trace it through the struggles of Greece and of our South
  American neighbors for independence and a free Government, a brave,
  generous tone of sympathy with struggling people the world round in
  our diplomatic policy. I think we may well challenge comparison with
  the foreign policy of any other great Government in the world in this
  regard. It has never been our policy to push our trade forward at the
  point of the bayonet. We have always believed that it should be urged
  upon the ground of mutual advantage; and upon this ground alone are we
  now endeavoring, by every means in our power, to open the markets of
  our sister republics in Central and South America to the products of
  American shops and farmers. [Applause.]

  We do not covet their territory. The day of filibustering aggression
  has gone by in the United States. We covet their good will. We wish
  for them settled institutions of government, and we desire those
  exchanges that are mutually profitable. We have found that we were
  receiving from some of these countries enormous annual imports of
  sugar, coffee, and hides, and we have now placed these articles on the
  free list upon the condition that they give to the products of the
  United States fair reciprocity. [Applause.] If our own laws, or any
  aggressive movement we are making for a larger share in the commerce
  of the world, should excite the commercial jealousy and rivalry of
  other countries we shall not complain if those rivalries find only
  proper expressions. We have come to a time in our development as a
  Nation when I believe that interest on money is low enough for us to
  turn some of our accumulated capital from the railways into steam
  transportation on the sea; that the time has come when we shall
  recover a full participation in the carrying trade of the world,
  when under the American flag steamships shall carry our products to
  neighboring markets and bring back their exchange to our harbors.
  Larger foreign markets for the products of our farms and of our
  factories and a larger share in the carrying trade of the world,
  peaceful relations with all mankind, with naval and coast defences
  that will silently make an effective argument on the side of peace,
  are the policies that I would pursue. [Applause.]




BRATTLEBORO, VERMONT, AUGUST 27.


Just before the train reached Brattleboro the rain ceased, and the
President rode in a procession to the house of Col. J. J. Estey. The
Committee of Reception consisted of Colonel Estey, Col. Kittredge
Haskins, Dr. H. D. Holton, N. I. Hawley, F. W. Childs, ex-Governor
Holbrook, Judge Wheeler, Hon. B. D. Harris, Hon. J. L. Martin, E. C.
Crosby, Judge R. W. Clarke, C. F. Thompson, Col. W. C. Holbrook, George
S. Dowley, Colonel Fuller, Dr. Conland, Dr. Ketchum, and G. A. Hines.
Veterans of the G. A. R., and the Estey Guard, escorted the Chief
Executive through the city. Several thousand were assembled on the
grounds.

Colonel Estey welcomed and presented the President, who made the
following address:

  _My Fellow citizens_--Governor Proctor held out to me the suggestion
  that this trip to Vermont would be a very restful one. He has the
  queerest appreciation of what rest means of any man I know. [Laughter.]

  When I attended the centennial demonstration of the inauguration
  of Washington in New York, I spent part of one day on the bridge of
  the _Despatch_ bowing to the fleet in the bay as we moved down to
  the Battery, and the balance of the day shaking hands at the City
  Hall, attending a ball at night; ten hours the next day reviewing a
  procession, with a banquet at night; and about as many hours the day
  following reviewing the civic procession; and when released from the
  stand about 5 o'clock in the evening I hurried to the Jersey City
  depot to take the train, scarcely able to stand upon my feet. One
  of the gentlemen of the committee said to me: "Well, Mr. President,
  I hope you have enjoyed these three days of rest in New York."
  [Laughter.]

  I wish I could see you more satisfactorily than I am able to do on a
  hurried trip like this, but Governor Proctor kept me up very late last
  night, and he was the last man down to breakfast this morning himself.

  All that I have seen in your State has but increased the respect I
  have always entertained for your people. My recent journey of somewhat
  great length through the country has very deeply impressed upon me the
  fact of the unity of our people. The building of these great railroad
  lines making every part of every State familiar, and stretching across
  the continent so as to bring within easy access the most distant parts
  of our country, has had a great tendency to unify our people and to
  wipe out whatever there was provincial or local in our character. It
  has rubbed off some of the edges of the New England character, and
  has rubbed on some of the New England polish upon the West. In fact,
  wherever we have any combining, nothing makes it homogeneous except
  a thorough mixer, and the American people have certainly had a most
  thorough mixing. [Cheers.]

  One of your war Governors was saying to me to-day, as we came along
  in the train, your own distinguished fellow-citizen, that on a journey
  West not long ago everywhere Vermont men came to meet him; and as I
  went recently across the continent the railroad train scarcely stopped
  at any station that some one from Indiana did not reach up his hand
  and claim recognition; and so it is in all the States.

  The West is now turning a little back toward the East, and I have
  found some people, who probably had some ancestral connection with
  New England, but whose birth, early residence, and business life
  were in the West, who have come back to the old home. All this is
  pleasant, all this is surety of the future of our country. It is
  pleasant to know that the South is being obliterated, that all that
  made it distinctive in the sense of separation or alienation is being
  gradually wiped out. [Applause.]

  Of course, the prejudices of generations are not like marks upon
  the blackboard, that can be rubbed out with a sponge. These are more
  like the deep glacial lines that the years have left in the rock; but
  the water, when that surface is exposed to its quiet, gentle, and
  perpetual influence, wears even these out, until the surface is smooth
  and uniform. And so these influences are at work in our whole country,
  and we should be hopeful for it, hopeful for its future. I am sure you
  each feel pride in your American citizenship, and would show readiness
  to defend it in war, and I am sure that from every class of your
  community would come the response: "We will maintain it, honorable and
  high, in peace."

  I thank you most sincerely for your friendly greeting, and regret
  that I am not able to speak to you more satisfactorily, and can only
  accept with a heart full of appreciation these marks of your respect.
  [Applause.]




RUTLAND, VERMONT, AUGUST 28.


The President and his party were guests of Secretary Proctor on the
night of the 27th, at the village of Proctor, in the Green Mountains.
The morning of the 28th, the party visited Rutland, and were met by
the local Reception Committee: J. C. Baker, H. H. Dyer, W. G. Veazey,
ex-Judge Barrett, J. W. Cramton, Dr. J. D. Hanrahan, C. H. Joyce, J.
N. Woodfin, E. P. Gilson, P. W. Clement, George E. Lawrence, Henry
F. Field, John N. Baxter, P. M. Meldon, John A. Sheldon, George J.
Wardwell, Dr. Norman Seaver, and Henry Carpenter, President of the
village.

Arrived at Memorial Hall the President was greeted by a large
assemblage, including many ladies. He was presented by Colonel Baker and
made the following address:

  _My Fellow-citizens and Comrades of the Grand Army of the
  Republic_--It gives me great pleasure this morning, tired as I am,
  to see and to have an opportunity to express my thanks to this large
  assemblage of the good citizens of Rutland. My journey through your
  State has been attended with every evidence of respect which it was
  possible for the people to bestow. Your chairman has spoken of the
  fact that the President of the United States may travel everywhere
  through our country without any attendance of policemen. As I have
  had occasion to say before, the only peril he is likely to meet, if
  the railroads take good care of him and the cranks keep out of the
  way, is from the over-kindness of the people [laughter and applause];
  and there is more peril in that than you will understand at first
  thought. It is pleasant to stand upon the steps of this Memorial
  Hall, erected as a place of deposit for trophies of the great Civil
  War and as a monument of honor to those soldiers from Vermont who
  aided so conspicuously in making that war successful. We cannot tell
  how much hung upon that contest. No orator has yet been inspired to
  describe adequately the gravity of the great issue which was fought
  out upon the battle-fields of the War of the Rebellion. We say it was a
  contest to preserve the unity of our republic, and so it was; but what
  dismemberment would have meant; how greatly it would have increased
  the cost of government; how sadly it would have disturbed the plan
  of our border communities; how it would have degraded in the eyes of
  the world this great people; how it would have rejoiced the enemies
  of popular government, no tongue has yet adequately described. But
  it was not to be so. God has desired that this experiment of free
  government should have a more perfect trial, and it was impossible
  that the brave men of the loyal States should consent to dismemberment
  of the Union. We were very patient, so patient, in the early contest,
  as it ranged through the great debate of convention and Congress that
  our brethren of the South altogether mistook the temper of our people.
  Undoubtedly there were evidences that the men of trade were reluctant
  to have those lines of profitable communication, which had been so
  long maintained with the South, broken off. Undoubtedly that character
  so undesirable in our politics--the doughface--was particularly
  conspicuous in those days of discussion, but we were altogether
  misjudged when the people of the South concluded that they might
  support their threats of disunion which had so long rung in Congress,
  and so long filled their boasting press, by force of arms.

  I shall never forget, nor will any of you who are old enough to
  remember it, that great electric thrill and shock which passed through
  our whole country when the first gun was fired at Sumter. Debate was
  closed. Our orators were withdrawn, and a great wave of determined
  patriotism swept over the country higher than any tidal wave ever
  lifted itself upon a devastated coast [applause], and it was not to be
  stayed in its progress until the last vestige of rebellion had been
  swept from the face of our beloved land. The men of New England were a
  peaceful people. The farmers and the farmers' sons were not brawlers.
  They were not found at the tavern. They were abiding under the
  sheltering moral influences and quietude of these New England hills.
  But the man who thought that the spirit of 1776 had been quenched was
  badly mistaken. The same resolute love of liberty, the same courage
  to face danger for a cause that had its inspiration in high moral
  purposes and resolves abided in the hearts of your people. [Applause.]
  Possibly the war might have been avoided if the South had understood
  this, but it was so written in the severe but benevolent purposes of
  God. There was a great scroll of emancipation to be written. There was
  a martyr President, who was to affix his name to a declaration that
  would be as famous as that to which your fathers fixed their signature
  in 1776. It was to be in truth as well as in theory a free people
  [applause], and there was no other pathway to emancipation than along
  the bloody track of armies, not seeing at the beginning nor having
  the purpose that finally was accomplished, but guided by the hand of
  power and wisdom that is above us and over us to the accomplishment of
  that glorious result that struck the shackles from four millions of
  slaves. [Applause.]

  I greet most affectionately these comrades of the war who are before
  me to-day. Let them abide in honor in all your communities. Let
  shafts of marble and bronze lift themselves in all your towns to tell
  the story of patriots' work well done and to teach the generations
  that are to come how worthy their fathers were. Let us preserve all
  these inspiring lessons of history, all these individual examples of
  heroism, of which Vermont furnished so many during the war. Let them
  not be forgotten. Let them be the illuminated and inspiring pages of
  your State's history, and then, whatever shock may come to us in the
  future, whenever the hand of anarchy or disorder shall be raised,
  whenever foreign powers shall seek to invade the rights or liberties
  of this great people, there will be found again an impenetrable
  bulwark in the brave hearts of a sturdy and patriotic people.
  [Applause.] You will, I am sure, crown your kindness by excusing
  me from attempting further speech and allowing me to express, as I
  part from you, my good wishes for Vermont and all her good people.
  [Applause.]




PROCTOR, VERMONT, AUGUST 28.


On the return to Proctor in the evening the President was tendered the
final reception of his trip to Vermont. The village was elaborately
decorated; an illuminated evergreen arch spanned the entrance to
Secretary Proctor's beautiful grounds. The residences and grounds of E.
R. Morse, F. D. Proctor, B. F. Taylor, W. E. Higbee, G. H. Davis, E. J.
Boyce, J. H. Edson, and H. E. Spencer were also brilliantly illuminated.
From a platform fronting the Secretary's home the party reviewed the
procession of 1,000 workmen from the marble quarries.

Secretary Proctor, in an affectionate address, introduced President
Harrison, who spoke as follows:

  It is not my privilege to call you neighbors, but I am sure I may
  call you friends. This journey in Vermont is crowned to-night by a
  reception and a good-by that is surpassingly brilliant and artistic
  in its preparation and one that I have never seen exceeded. But
  above all this, I have been able here in Proctor to witness in its
  best manifestation that which I have seen elsewhere in New England
  and especially in Vermont--a community of workers, men industriously
  pursuing mechanical avocations and doing it under conditions of
  the greatest possible comfort. As I look upon these homes in which
  you dwell and contrast them with the wretchedness of the crowded
  tenement-houses of our great cities; as I inhale to-night the bracing
  air of these mountains, and as my eye has looked to-day upon their
  green summits, I have said how happy is the lot of that man and that
  woman who work in one of these bright, wholesome New England villages.
  [Applause.] It has seemed to me that the relation of our mutual friend
  who has inaugurated and developed these works in which many of you
  find employment was that of a public benefactor and a personal friend.
  [Applause.] The simplicity and naturalness of his own life among you,
  his ready appreciation of the loyalty and intelligence of those who
  are employed by him, his interest in their success in life, is the
  ideal relation between the employer and his workmen. [Applause.] I
  would to God it was always and everywhere so, that when a man is put
  at a machine he should not be regarded by his employer as a part of
  it, that the human nature, the aspirations of a man, should still be
  recognized, and the relations with the employer be that of mutual
  confidence and helpfulness and respect! [Applause.]

  You are sharers in the responsibilities of local government, of the
  government of your State and of the Nation, of which Vermont is one
  of the honored members. I am sure that you have pride in the faithful
  discharge of all these duties. I cannot but feel that our national
  policy should be in the direction of saving our working people from
  that condition of hopelessness which comes when wages are barely
  adequate to the sustenance of animal life. [Applause.] There is no
  hope for any community where this state of things exists, and there
  will be no hope for the Nation should it become the general condition
  of the workingmen of America. That man or woman out of whose heart
  hope has gone, who sees nothing better in life, before whom the vista
  of life stretches in one dead level of unending and half-requited
  toil, that man's estate is calculated to make him reckless in
  character. It is one of the beneficent conditions of citizenship here
  that there are no disabilities put in the way of ambitions and the
  aspiring. I hope it may always be so. I cannot always sympathize with
  that demand which we hear so frequently for cheap things. Things may
  be too cheap. They are too cheap when the man who produces them upon
  the farm or the man or woman who produces them in the factory does not
  get out of them living wages with a margin for old age and for a dowry
  for the incidents that are to follow. [Applause.] I pity that man who
  wants a coat so cheap that the man or woman who produces the cloth or
  shapes it into a garment shall starve in the process. [Applause.]

  I am most profoundly grateful to you, my fellow-citizens, and to my
  good friend Governor Proctor, for this beautiful demonstration--this
  magnificent rural welcome which we have had here to-day. It will live
  always in my memory. I shall carry this community in my thoughts as
  one of the best types of American neighborhood life. I have found
  in him a most valuable contribution to the administration of the
  Government at Washington. [Applause.] You cannot know fully how he has
  grown into the respect and confidence of all who have been associated
  with him in the Cabinet and of all our legislators in Congress without
  distinction of party. I regret that there is some danger that you may
  reclaim him for Vermont [applause]; yet it is quite natural that it
  should be so, and I shall do the best I can to get a substitute. The
  labors of public office at Washington are full of high responsibility
  and most burdensome toil. No man is endowed with an incapacity to make
  mistakes. We can, however, all of us, in public or private trust,
  be sure of our motives. These are our own. We can know whether we
  are pursuing low and selfish ends or have set before us the general
  good, the highest good of all our people. Judgment upon what has been
  done is with you. I am sure only that I have had it in my heart to
  do that which should in the highest degree promote the prosperity of
  our people and lift the glorious flag yet higher in the esteem of the
  world. [Great applause.] We have been endeavoring to open a foreign
  market for American trade. If these efforts are met, as I trust they
  will be, by enterprise on the part of our merchants and manufacturers,
  I do not doubt that the next ten years will see a most gratifying
  increase in our foreign trade. [Applause.] They should diligently set
  themselves to the study of the new markets into which their goods may
  now go. The most intelligent representatives should be sent there,
  and their goods adapted to the market that is to be supplied. This I
  have no doubt they will do, and I add the expectation that we shall
  presently have a most gratifying increase in the American merchant
  marine. [Applause.]




WASHINGTON, SEPTEMBER 17, 1891.

_The Augusta Exposition._


President Harrison on the above date received at the Executive Mansion
a delegation of prominent citizens of Georgia, who extended to him a
formal invitation to attend the Augusta Exposition in November. The
delegation comprised the following citizens and Exposition directors:
Hon. Patrick Walsh, Walter M. Jackson, J. P. Verdery, H. G. Smith, J.
L. Gow, C. H. Ballard, J. J. Doughty, W. A. Garrett, G. J. Howard, W.
H. Landrum, J. E. Barton, W. E. Keener, Percy Burum, J. P. Bones, J. M.
Cranston, Crawford Mays, Maurice Walton, L. J. Henry, T. R. Gibson, P.
J. O'Connor, Jules Rival, Joseph Ganahl, Jr., W. H. Barrett, Jr., P.
A. Stovall, W. E. Platt, A. J. Gouley, Frank X. Dorr, and Hon. J. C.
Clements.

Chairman Walsh, on behalf of the committee, made the invitation address,
to which the President, responding, said:

  _Gentlemen_--I recall with pleasure the visit made by some of
  your representatives. I think I have repeatedly, on every suitable
  occasion, especially during my recent visit to the South, expressed
  my sincere hope of the development of those marvellous resources
  so long hidden from sight, but now about to be opened up. I had
  occasion to say then that you would realize the advantage of
  combining manufactures with agriculture. The old system made of
  Georgia a plantation State. I would not have it less so. But you may
  still develop other industries without destroying the surface of
  the country. There is no competition between these industries; one
  does not supersede the other. The farmer still has his near market
  for some products that will not bear transportation. Out of this
  diversity I think the highest development will come. Recently I made
  a trip through New England and was deeply impressed with the numerous
  industries and small factories showing in little places, where the
  lives and homes of the workmen were so much cleaner and purer than in
  the great cities, and this was made possible by the great diversity
  of small interests. In Vermont I came upon a busy little factory
  surrounded by cottages in the midst of the hills. I was told that the
  proprietor made stethoscopes, and out of a small beginning had built
  up a great trade. These little things make happy homes; bring money,
  trade, and development. I am greatly interested in these things, and
  I would be very happy to see this development in Alabama and Georgia
  as in any Northern State. We all wish it. Whether I can be with you
  or not I cannot now say. I have a good many very important matters
  demanding attention from now on to the meeting of Congress. Some are
  home matters of importance and some are foreign. Looking back over
  the last year, it would seem probable that there was a conspiracy
  among the powers to see that those in responsible places should have
  no rest. Many of these things must now come to my personal attention.
  If I cannot be with you, you will know that my heart is with you. If
  I can I will come, but the time now being so close to the meeting of
  Congress it is doubtful.




WASHINGTON, D. C., OCTOBER 17, 1891.


The Ecumenical Conference of the Methodist Church convened in the
Metropolitan Church at Washington, D. C., on October 7, 1891. Rt. Rev.
Thomas Bowman, Senior Bishop of the Church in America, presided at
the opening, and Rev. William Arthur, M.A., of London, delivered the
inaugural sermon. It was in every respect the greatest assembly in the
history of Methodism.

Among a few of the distinguished preachers and orators from abroad were:
Rev. T. B. Stephenson, D.D., LL.D., Rev. Hugh Price Hughes, M.A., Rev.
John Bond, Rev. F. W. Bourne, Rev. J. Ernest Clapham, and Rev. David
J. Waller, D.D., all of London. The following Washingtonians comprised
the Committee on Reception: Bishop J. F. Hurst, D.D.; Rev. G. H. Corey,
D.D., Chairman; Rev. C. W. Baldwin, Rev. J. H. Becket, Rev. J. W. E.
Bowen, Rev. T. E. Carson, Rev. R. H. G. Dyson, Rev. George Elliott,
Rev. S. R. Murray, Rev. C. H. Phillips, Rev. J. A. Price, Rev. E. S.
Todd, Rev. L. T. Widerman, Rev. J. T. Wightman, Rev. L. B. Wilson,
Alexander Ashley, E. S. Atkinson, W. S. Birch, Gen. Cyrus Bussey, J. F.
Chestnut, D. S. Cissell, Robert Cohen, George Compton, L. A. Cornish,
G. S. Deering, Robert Dunn, A. B. Duval, Hon. M. G. Emery, Prof. Edgar
Frisbie, D. B. Groff, T. A. Harding, Gen. S. S. Henkle, W. H. Houghton,
W. J. Hutchinson, Thomas Jarvis, B. F. Leighton, William Mayse, H. B.
Moulton, Hon. Hiram Price, B. Robinson, W. J. Sibley, T. B. Stahl, B.
H. Stinemetz, H. L. Strang, G. W. F. Swartzell, Frederick Tasker, J. S.
Topham, L. H. Walker, E. S. Wescott, J. B. Wilson, and W. R. Woodward.

On the tenth day of the Conference, President Harrison, escorted by
Rev. Dr. J. M. King, Secretary, and Rev. Dr. Corey, the pastor of
Metropolitan Church, attended the session. Other distinguished visitors
were Secretary of the Treasury Foster, Secretary of the Interior Noble,
and Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British Minister.

The chief essay of the session was delivered by Mr. Thomas Snape, of
Liverpool, upon the topic of the day, "International Arbitration," a
subject which made the presence of the President and the British envoy
particularly appropriate.

As the President ascended to the pulpit, all the delegates and the great
audience instantly arose. The presiding officer of the day, Rev. T. G.
Williams, of Montreal, presented the distinguished visitor, who was
received with prolonged applause, in which the English delegates led.

President Harrison then addressed the Conference as follows:

  _Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Conference_--I come here this
  morning to make an expression of my respect and esteem for this great
  body of delegates assembled from all the countries of the world, and
  much more to give a manifestation of my respect and love for that
  greater body of Christian men and women for whom you stand. Every
  Ecumenical Conference is a distinct step in the direction, not only
  of the unification of the Church, but of the unification of the human
  race.

  Assembling from countries unlike in their civil institutions, from
  churches not wholly in accord as to doctrine or church order, you
  come together to find that the unlikeness is not so great as you
  had thought, and to find your common sympathies and common purposes
  greater and larger than you had thought--large enough presently to
  overspread and to extinguish all these transitory lines of division.

  I am glad to know that as followers of Wesley, whose hymns we sing,
  you have been in consultation as to the methods by which these minor
  divisions among you might be obliterated. It is the natural order that
  subdivisions should be wiped out before the grand divisions of the
  Church can be united. [Applause.] Who does not greatly rejoice that
  the controversial clash of the churches is less than it once was; that
  we hear more of the Master and His teachings of love and duty than of
  hair-splitting theological differences? [Applause.]

  Many years ago, while visiting in Wisconsin, when Sunday came
  around I went with some friends to the little Methodist church
  in an adjoining village. The preacher undertook to overturn my
  Presbyterianism. [Laughter and applause.] An irreverent friend who
  sat beside me as the young man delivered his telling blows against
  Calvinism was constantly emphasizing the points made by nudging me
  with his elbow. [Laughter.] Now I am glad to say that very often since
  then I have worshipped in Methodist churches, and that is the last
  experience of that kind I have had. [Applause]

  You have to-day as the theme of discussion the subject of
  international arbitration; and this being a public, or, in a large
  sense of the word, a political question, perhaps makes my presence
  here as an officer of the United States especially appropriate.
  [Applause.]

  It is a curious incident that some days ago, and before I was aware
  of the theme or the occasion which we have here this morning, I had
  appointed this afternoon to visit the great gun foundry of the United
  States at the navy yard. Things have come in their proper sequence. I
  am here at this arbitration meeting before I go to the gun factory.
  [Laughter.]

  This subject is one that has long attracted the attention, and I
  think I may say has, perhaps, as greatly attracted the interest and
  adherence of the United States as that of any other Christian power in
  the world. [Applause.]

  It is known to you all that in the recent conference of the American
  states at Washington the proposition was distinctly made and adopted
  by the representatives of all, or nearly all, of the governments
  of America that, as applied to this hemisphere, all international
  disputes should be settled by arbitration. [Applause.]

  Of course there are limitations as yet, in the nature of things,
  to the complete and general adoption of such a scheme. It is quite
  possible to apply arbitration to a dispute as to a boundary line;
  it is quite impossible, it seems to me, to apply it to a case of
  international feud. If there is present a disposition to subjugate,
  an aggressive spirit to seize territory, a spirit of national
  aggrandizement that does not stop to consider the rights of other men
  and other people--to such a case and to such a spirit international
  arbitration has none, or, if any, a remote and difficult application.

  It is for a Christian sentiment, manifesting itself in a nation, to
  remove forever such causes of dispute; and then what remains will be
  the easy subject of adjustment by fair international arbitration. But
  I had not intended to enter into a discussion of this great theme, for
  the setting forth of which you have appointed those who have given
  it special attention. Let me, therefore, say simply this: that for
  myself--temporarily in a place of influence in this country--and much
  more for the great body of its citizenship, I express the desire of
  America for peace with the whole world. [Applause.] It would have been
  vain to suggest the pulling down of block-houses or family disarmament
  to the settlers on a hostile Indian frontier. They would have told
  you rightly that the conditions were not ripe. And so it may be and
  is probably true that a full application of the principle is not
  presently possible, the devil still being unchained. [Laughter.]

  We will have our gun foundries, and possibly will best promote the
  settlement of international disputes by arbitration, by having it
  understood that if the appeal is to a fiercer tribunal we shall not be
  out of the debate. [Great applause.] There is a unity of the Church
  and of humanity, and the lines of progress are the same.

  It is by this great Christian sentiment, characterized not only by
  a high sense of justice, but by a spirit of love and forbearance,
  mastering the civil institutions and governments of the world, that
  we shall approach universal peace and adopt arbitration methods of
  settling disputes. [Applause.]

  Let me thank you, Mr. Chairman, and you, gentlemen of this
  Conference, for the privilege of standing before you for a moment, and
  for this most cordial welcome which you have given to me. I beg to
  express again my high appreciation of the character of this delegation
  and the membership of the great Church from which you come, and to
  wish that in your remaining deliberations and in your journeys to
  far-distant homes you may have the guidance and care of that God whom
  we all revere and worship. [Applause.]




AMERICAN TIN PLATE, OCTOBER 23.


While the gubernatorial campaign in Ohio was in progress and Major
McKinley was making his famous race, the question as to the successful
manufacture of tin plate in the United States was one of the leading
issues of the day. At this juncture W. C. Cronemyer, of the United
States Iron and Steel Tin Plate Works, at Demmler, Pa., sent President
Harrison a box of tin plate manufactured at the Demmler works, and
received in return the following interesting letter, which was given
wide publicity at the time:

                                EXECUTIVE MANSION, October 19, 1891.

  MY DEAR SIR--I have your letter of October 15, and also a box of
  bright tin plate which you send as a specimen of the product being
  turned out by the United States Iron and Tin Plate Company. I have no
  skill in determining the character of this work; but, to the eye, it
  seems to be eminently satisfactory, and I thank you for this evidence
  that a new industry has been established in the United States.

  I cannot quite understand how an American can doubt that we have the
  mechanical skill and business sagacity to establish successfully here
  the manufacture of tin plate. No other country, certainly, surpasses
  us in the inventive genius of its citizens or in the business sagacity
  of its capitalists. It is surprising to me that any patriotic American
  should approach this question with a desire to see this great and
  interesting experiment fail, or with an unwillingness to accept the
  evidences of its success. It will be a great step in the direction of
  commercial independence when we produce our own tin plate.

  It seems to me that nothing, unless it be a lack of faith in the
  maintenance of the present law, can thwart this desirable achievement.
  I can understand how our success should be doubted and our failure
  accepted with satisfaction in Wales, but I cannot understand how any
  American can take that view of the question or why he should always
  approach every evidence of the successful establishment of this
  industry in this country with a disposition to discredit it and reject
  it. If the great experiment is to fail, our own people should not add
  to the mortification of failure the crime of rejoicing in it.

                                      Very truly yours,
                                                  BENJAMIN HARRISON.




WASHINGTON, NOVEMBER 14 AND DECEMBER 9, 1891.

_The Chilian Imbroglio._


In January, 1891, civil war broke out in the republic of Chili between
the Congressional forces and the established Government under President
Balmaceda. Deeds of cruelty signalized the conflict, which continued
until August 28, when the insurgent forces landed near Valparaiso and,
after a bloody engagement, captured that city. President Balmaceda
became a fugitive, and a few weeks later committed suicide, by shooting,
at the residence of Señor Uribirru, the Argentine Minister.

During the conduct of the war, the _Itata_, an armed vessel, commanded
by an officer of the Chilian insurgent fleet, was seized under process
of the United States Court at San Diego, Cal., for a violation of the
neutrality laws. This seizure and the subsequent escape, surrender,
and return of the _Itata_, and the strict neutrality observed by the
American Minister, Hon. Patrick Egan, and Admiral Brown, commanding
the squadron, caused the victorious Chilians to manifest a spirit of
animosity toward the Government and people of the United States. This
feeling was intensified by the false statements published in the British
press, notably the London _Times_, touching the conduct of Admiral Brown
and the American Minister, and by the fact that the American Legation,
exercising the established right of asylum, opened its doors to several
prominent political refugees of the defunct Balmaceda Government.

On October 16, 1891, this hostility culminated in an attack, in the
streets of Valparaiso, upon a number of sailors attached to the U. S.
cruiser _Baltimore_, who were upon shore leave. These sailors, wearing
their uniforms, were assaulted by armed men in different localities
in the city; one petty officer was killed outright, and eight seamen
seriously wounded, one of whom died a few days later. Many of their stab
wounds were in the back. The news of this bloody and unprovoked attack
sent a thrill of indignation across the American continent, and it was
felt that the deadly insult must be atoned in blood. The war feeling was
not lessened by the impudent tone of the reply from the Chilian Minister
of Foreign Affairs. American indignation subsided somewhat pending a
judicial inquiry into the attack, but the determination to expiate the
insult had in no degree abated when, on November 14, Señor Don Pedro
Montt was presented to President Harrison as the newly accredited
Chilian Minister to the United States.

The reception of a new Minister is ordinarily a very formal and
uninteresting affair, but the circumstances narrated--with the two
governments apparently on the verge of war--lent an unusual interest to
this official meeting; and the President's remarks, characterized by his
usual frankness and firmness, called forth the approval of the whole
Nation.

The Minister was accompanied by Señors Anibal Cruz, Secretary of
Legation; Guillermo Arenanetegan and Valentin del Campo, attachés. After
the formal introductions by Secretary Blaine, Señor Montt addressed the
President in Spanish as follows:

  _Mr. President_--I have the honor to present the credentials which
  accredit me in the capacity of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
  Plenipotentiary of the republic of Chili in the United States of North
  America. The object of the mission which the Government of Chili has
  confided to me is to cultivate and maintain the relations of peace
  and friendship between the United States and Chili, which have ever
  been close and cordial. For the accomplishment of this purpose I rely
  upon the kindness and good-will which the United States Government
  has always manifested for the representatives of Chili. Permit me to
  express my country's sincere wishes for the prosperity and welfare of
  this noble country, which is so highly favored by Providence, and for
  your own happiness.

The President, in response, said:

  _Mr. Minister_--I am glad to receive from your hands the
  letters accrediting you as the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister
  Plenipotentiary of the republic of Chili to the United States. The
  presence of a representative of the Government of Chili at this
  capital will, I hope, tend to promote a good understanding between
  the two governments and the early settlement, upon terms just and
  honorable to both, of the diplomatic questions now somewhat urgently
  awaiting adjustment. The Government of the United States, as well as
  its people, particularly desire and rejoice in the prosperity of all
  our neighbors in this hemisphere. Our diplomatic relations with them
  have always been and will continue to be free from intermeddling with
  their internal affairs. Our people are too just to desire that the
  commercial or political advantage of this Government should be sought
  by the promotion of disastrous dissensions in other countries. We
  hear with sorrow every fresh tale of war or internal strife, and are
  always ready to give our friendly offices to the promotion of peace.
  If these are not acceptable or do not avail, it is our policy to
  preserve an honorable and strict neutrality, as was done during the
  recent war in Chili. Tempting commercial and political advantages may
  be offered for our aid or influence by one or the other of the two
  contending parties, but this we have not deemed to be consistent with
  the obligations of international honor and good-will. This Government
  was quite as determined in its refusal to allow a war-vessel of the
  United States to carry to a neutral port, where it could be made
  available for war purposes, the silver of Balmaceda, as it was to give
  aid to the forces opposing him. The questions involved were Chilian
  questions, and this Government endeavored to observe those principles
  of non-intervention upon which it had so strongly insisted when civil
  war disturbed our own people. I cannot doubt that this policy will
  commend itself to those who now administer the Government of Chili;
  nor can I doubt that when excitement has given place to calmness, when
  the truth is ascertained and the selfish and designing perversions of
  recent incidents have been exposed, our respective governments will
  find a basis of increased mutual respect, confidence, and friendship.

  Mr. Minister, this Government and our people rejoice that peace has
  been restored in Chili, and that its Government is the expression of
  the free choice of its people. You may assure your honored President,
  who has been chosen under circumstances which so strongly testify to
  his moderation and to the esteem in which he is held by the people of
  all parties, that the Government of the United States entertains only
  good-will for him and for the people of Chili, and cannot doubt that
  the existing and all future differences between the two governments
  will find an honorable adjustment. To you, Mr. Minister, I tender a
  personal welcome.

In his annual message to Congress, December 9, President Harrison
concludes his remarks upon Chilian affairs relating to the attack upon
the sailors of the cruiser _Baltimore_ with the following significant
paragraphs:

  So far as I have yet been able to learn, no other explanation of
  this bloody work has been suggested than that it had its origin in
  hostility to these men as sailors of the United States, wearing the
  uniform of their Government, and not in any individual act or personal
  animosity. The attention of the Chilian Government was at once
  called to this affair, and a statement of the facts obtained by the
  investigation we had conducted was submitted, accompanied by a request
  to be advised of any other or qualifying facts in the possession of
  the Chilian Government that might tend to relieve this affair of the
  appearance of an insult to this Government. The Chilian Government
  was also advised that if such qualifying facts did not exist, this
  Government would confidently expect full and prompt reparation.

  It is to be regretted that the reply of the Secretary for Foreign
  Affairs of the Provisional Government was couched in an offensive
  tone. To this no response has been made. This Government is now
  awaiting the result of an investigation which has been conducted
  by the criminal court at Valparaiso. It is reported unofficially
  that the investigation is about completed, and it is expected that
  the result will soon be communicated to this Government, together
  with some adequate and satisfactory response to the note by which
  the attention of Chili was called to this incident. If these just
  expectations should be disappointed or further needless delay
  intervene, I will, by a special message, bring this matter again to
  the attention of Congress for such action as may be necessary. The
  entire correspondence with the Government of Chili will at an early
  day be submitted to Congress.




PROTECTION FOR RAILROAD EMPLOYEES.

[_Extract from President's Message, December 9, 1891._]


On the evening of August 5, 1888, at Indianapolis, General Harrison,
responding to an address from D. T. Downs, President of the Terre
Haute Railroad Club, and in the presence of several thousand railroad
employees, speaking of the heroic services rendered by the men who
operate the great railroad lines of the country, said:

  I do not doubt that certain and necessary provisions for the safety
  of the men who operate these roads will yet be made compulsory by
  public and general law. The dangers connected with your calling are
  very great, and the public interest, as well as your own, requires
  that they should be reduced to the minimum. I do not doubt that we
  shall yet require that uniformity in the construction of railroad cars
  that will diminish the danger of those, who must pass between them in
  order to make up trains.

Consistent with these views, President Harrison, in his message to
Congress, December 9, 1891, made the following pertinent suggestions:

  I have twice before urgently called the attention of Congress to the
  necessity of legislation for the protection of the lives of railroad
  employees, but nothing has yet been done. During the year ending June
  30, 1890, 369 brakemen were killed and 7,841 maimed while engaged in
  coupling cars. The total number of railroad employees killed during
  the year was 2,451 and the number injured 22,390. This is a cruel and
  largely a needless sacrifice, The Government is spending nearly one
  million dollars annually to save the lives of shipwrecked seamen;
  every steam-vessel is rigidly inspected and required to adopt the most
  approved safety appliances. All this is good; but how shall we excuse
  the lack of interest and effort in behalf of this army of brave young
  men who in our land commerce are being sacrificed every year by the
  continued use of antiquated and dangerous appliances? A law requiring
  of every railroad engaged in inter-State commerce the equipment each
  year of a given per cent. of its freight cars with automatic couplers
  and air brakes would compel an agreement between the roads as to the
  kind of brakes and couplers to be used, and would very soon and very
  greatly reduce the present fearful death-rate among railroad employees.




THE APPOINTMENT OF PRESIDENTIAL ELECTORS.

[_From Annual Message to Congress, December 9, 1891._]


Perhaps no official utterance of President Harrison received more
serious and profound consideration--as indicated through the press
of the day--than the following patriotic admonishment regarding the
danger lurking within certain possible methods of choosing presidential
electors. He said:

  The method of appointment by the States of electors of President and
  Vice-President has recently attracted renewed interest by reason of a
  departure by the State of Michigan from the method which had become
  uniform in all the States. Prior to 1832 various methods had been
  used by the different States, and even by the same State. In some the
  choice was made by the Legislature; in others electors were chosen by
  districts, but more generally by the voters of the whole State upon
  a general ticket. The movement toward the adoption of the last-named
  method had an early beginning and went steadily forward among the
  States, until in 1832 there remained but a single State--South
  Carolina--that had not adopted it. That State, until the Civil War,
  continued to choose its electors by a vote of the Legislature, but
  after the war changed its method and conformed to the practice of the
  other States. For nearly sixty years all the States save one have
  appointed their electors by a popular vote upon a general ticket, and
  for nearly thirty years this method was universal.

  After a full test of other methods, without important division or
  dissent in any State and without any purpose of party advantage, as
  we must believe, but solely upon the considerations that uniformity
  was desirable and that general election in territorial divisions not
  subject to change was most consistent with the popular character of
  our institutions, best preserved the equality of the voters, and
  perfectly removed the choice of President from the baneful influence
  of the "gerrymander," the practice of all the States was brought into
  harmony. That this concurrence should now be broken is, I think, an
  unfortunate and even a threatening episode, and one that may well
  suggest whether the States that still give their approval to the
  old and prevailing method ought not to secure, by a constitutional
  amendment, a practice which has had the approval of all. The recent
  Michigan legislation provides for choosing what are popularly
  known as the Congressional electors for President by Congressional
  districts, and the two Senatorial electors by districts created for
  that purpose. This legislation was, of course, accompanied by a new
  Congressional apportionment, and the two statutes bring the electoral
  vote of the State under the influence of the "gerrymander."

  These gerrymanders for Congressional purposes are in most cases
  buttressed by a gerrymander of the legislative districts, thus making
  it impossible for a majority of the legal voters of the State to
  correct the apportionment and equalize the Congressional districts.
  A minority rule is established that only a political convulsion
  can overthrow. I have recently been advised that in one county of
  a certain State three districts for the election of members of the
  Legislature are constituted as follows: One has 65,000 population,
  one 15,000, and one 10,000; while in another county, detached,
  non-contiguous sections have been united to make a legislative
  district. These methods have already found effective application to
  the choice of Senators and Representatives in Congress, and now an
  evil start has been made in the direction of applying them to the
  choice by the States of electors of President and Vice-President. If
  this is accomplished, we shall then have the three great departments
  of the Government in the grasp of the "gerrymander," the legislative
  and executive directly and the judiciary indirectly, through the power
  of appointment.

  An election implies a body of electors having prescribed
  qualifications, each one of whom has an equal value and influence in
  determining the result. So when the Constitution provides that "each
  State shall appoint [elect], in such manner as the legislature thereof
  may direct, a number of electors," etc., an unrestricted power was not
  given to the legislatures in the selection of the methods to be used.
  "A republican form of government" is guaranteed by the Constitution
  to each State, and the power given by the same instrument to the
  legislatures of the States to prescribe methods for the choice, by
  the State, of electors must be exercised under that limitation. The
  essential features of such a government are the right of the people
  to choose their own officers and the nearest practicable equality of
  value in the suffrages given in determining that choice.

  It will not be claimed that the power given to the Legislature
  would support a law providing that the persons receiving the smallest
  vote should be the electors, or a law that all the electors should
  be chosen by the voters of a single Congressional district. The
  State is to choose, and under the pretence of regulating methods
  the legislature can neither vest the right of choice elsewhere nor
  adopt methods not conformable to republican institutions. It is not
  my purpose here to discuss the question whether a choice by the
  Legislature or by the voters of equal single districts is a choice by
  the State, but only to recommend such regulation of this matter by
  constitutional amendment as will secure uniformity and prevent that
  disgraceful partisan jugglery to which such a liberty of choice, if it
  exist, offers a temptation.

  Nothing just now is more important than to provide every guaranty
  for the absolutely fair and free choice by an equal suffrage, within
  the respective States, of all the officers of the national Government,
  whether that suffrage is applied directly, as in the choice of members
  of the House of Representatives, or indirectly, as in the choice of
  Senators and electors of President. Respect for public officers and
  obedience to law will not cease to be the characteristics of our
  people until our elections cease to declare the will of majorities
  fairly ascertained, without fraud, suppression, or gerrymander. If I
  were called upon to declare wherein our chief national danger lies, I
  should say, without hesitation, in the overthrow of majority control
  by the suppression or perversion of the popular suffrage. That there
  is a real danger here all must agree, but the energies of those who
  see it have been chiefly expended in trying to fix responsibility upon
  the opposite party, rather than in efforts to make such practices
  impossible by either party.

  Is it not possible now to adjourn that interminable and inconclusive
  debate while we take, by consent, one step in the direction of reform
  by eliminating the gerrymander, which has been denounced by all
  parties, as an influence in the selection of electors of President
  and members of Congress? All the States have, acting freely and
  separately, determined that the choice of electors by a general ticket
  is the wisest and safest method, and it would seem there could be no
  objection to a constitutional amendment making that method permanent.
  If a legislature chosen in one year upon purely local questions
  should, pending a presidential contest, meet, rescind the law for a
  choice upon a general ticket, and provide for the choice of electors
  by the legislature, and this trick should determine the result, it
  is not too much to say that the public peace might be seriously and
  widely endangered.

  I have alluded to the "gerrymander" as affecting the method of
  selecting electors of President by Congressional districts, but the
  primary intent and effect of this form of political robbery have
  relation to the selection of members of the House of Representatives.
  The power of Congress is ample to deal with this threatening and
  intolerable abuse. The unfailing test of sincerity in election reform
  will be found in a willingness to confer as to remedies and to put
  into force such measures as will most effectually preserve the right
  of the people to free and equal representation.

  An attempt was made in the last Congress to bring to bear the
  constitutional powers of the general Government for the correction
  of frauds against the suffrage. It is important to know whether the
  opposition to such measures is really vested in particular features
  supposed to be objectionable or includes any proposition to give to
  the election laws of the United States adequacy to the correction
  of grave and acknowledged evils. I must yet entertain the hope that
  it is possible to secure a calm, patriotic consideration of such
  constitutional or statutory changes as may be necessary to secure
  the choice of the officers of the Government to the people by fair
  apportionments and free elections. I believe it would be possible to
  constitute a commission, non-partisan in its membership and composed
  of patriotic, wise, and impartial men, to whom a consideration of the
  question of the evils connected with our election system and methods
  might be committed with a good prospect of securing unanimity in some
  plan for removing or mitigating those evils. The Constitution would
  permit the selection of the commission to be vested in the Supreme
  Court, if that method would give the best guaranty of impartiality.

  This commission should be charged with the duty of inquiring into
  the whole subject of the law of elections as related to the choice of
  officers of the national Government, with a view to securing to every
  elector a free and unmolested exercise of the suffrage and as near an
  approach to an equality of value in each ballot cast as is attainable.

  While the policies of the general Government upon the tariff,
  upon the restoration of our merchant marine, upon river and harbor
  improvements, and other such matters of grave and general concern are
  liable to be turned this way or that by the results of Congressional
  elections and administrative policies, sometimes involving issues that
  tend to peace or war, to be turned this way or that by the results
  of a presidential election, there is a rightful interest in all the
  States and in every Congressional district that will not be deceived
  or silenced by the audacious pretence that the question of the right
  of any body of legal voters in any State or in any Congressional
  district to give their suffrages freely upon these general questions
  is a matter only of local concern or control. The demand that the
  limitations of suffrage shall be found in the law, and only there, is
  a just demand, and no just man should resent or resist it. My appeal
  is, and must continue to be, for a consultation that shall "proceed
  with candor, calmness, and patience upon the lines of justice and
  humanity, not of prejudice and cruelty."

  To the consideration of these very grave questions I invite not only
  the attention of Congress, but that of all patriotic citizens. We must
  not entertain the delusion that our people have ceased to regard a
  free ballot and equal representation as the price of their allegiance
  to laws and to civil magistrates.

  I have been greatly rejoiced to notice many evidences of the
  increased unification of our people and of a revived national spirit.
  The vista that now opens to us is wider and more glorious than
  ever before. Gratification and amazement struggle for supremacy as
  we contemplate the population, wealth, and moral strength of our
  country. A trust, momentous in its influence upon our people and upon
  the world, is for a brief time committed to us, and we must not be
  faithless to its first condition--the defence of the free and equal
  influence of the people in the choice of public officers and in the
  control of public affairs.




THE CHILIAN MESSAGE, JANUARY 25, 1892.


Just as this book is going to the printer there has appeared a most
satisfactory closing chapter--the masterly message on the Chilian
difficulty. This message quickly won the approval of the civilized
world, and has stirred, as it has not been stirred in years, the
patriotic pride of our own people. It will rank side by side with
Monroe's famous declaration of American policy. It at once impresses
one with its character as the official statement of their position by
a powerful yet generous people, who, conscious of their own strength,
will firmly assert their rights and maintain their dignity, without any
disposition to despoil or humiliate their weaker neighbors. The position
taken by the President was so firm and the justice of our claims was so
clearly set forth that three days after the date of the message he was
enabled to announce to Congress that Chili had substantially complied
with our demands.

Such parts of the message as contained only a recital of facts, or were
not necessary to an understanding of the policy announced have, for the
sake of brevity, been omitted.

  _To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

       ·       ·       ·       ·       ·

  We have now received from the Chilian Government an abstract of the
  conclusions of the _Fiscal General_ upon the testimony taken by the
  Judge of Crimes in an investigation which was made to extend over
  nearly three months. I very much regret to be compelled to say that
  this report does not enable me to modify the conclusion announced in
  my annual message. I am still of the opinion that our sailors were
  assaulted, beaten, stabbed, and killed, not for anything they or any
  one of them had done, but for what the Government of the United States
  had done, or was charged with having done, by its civil officers and
  naval commanders. If that be the true aspect of the case, the injury
  was to the Government of the United States, not to these poor sailors
  who were assaulted in a manner so brutal and so cowardly.

       ·       ·       ·       ·       ·

  It is not claimed that every personal collision or injury in
  which a sailor or officer of such naval vessel visiting the shore
  may be involved raises an international question; but I am clearly
  of the opinion that where such sailors or officers are assaulted
  by a resident populace, animated by hostility to the Government
  whose uniform these sailors and officers wear, and in resentment of
  acts done by their Government, not by them, their nation must take
  notice of the event as one involving an infraction of its rights and
  dignity--not in a secondary way, as where a citizen is injured and
  presents his claim through his own Government, but in a primary way,
  precisely as if its minister or consul or the flag itself had been the
  object of the same character of assault. The officers and sailors of
  the _Baltimore_ were in the harbor of Valparaiso under the orders of
  their Government, not by their own choice. They were upon the shore
  by the implied invitation of the Government of Chili and with the
  approval of their commanding officer; and it does not distinguish
  their case from that of a consul that his stay is more permanent
  or that he holds the express invitation of the local government to
  justify his longer residence. Nor does it affect the question that
  the injury was the act of a mob. If there had been no participation
  by the police or military in this cruel work and no neglect on their
  part to extend protection, the case would still be one, in my opinion,
  when its extent and character are considered, involving international
  rights.

Here follow the details of the attack upon the sailors of the
_Baltimore_ in the streets of Valparaiso, October 16th.

  The scene ... is very graphically set before us by the Chilian
  testimony. The American sailors, who, after so long an examination,
  have not been found guilty of any breach of the peace so far as the
  Chilian authorities are able to discover, unarmed and defenceless,
  are fleeing for their lives, pursued by overwhelming numbers, and
  fighting only to aid their own escape from death or to succor some
  mate whose life is in greater peril. Eighteen of them are brutally
  stabbed and beaten, while one Chilian seems, from the report, to
  have suffered some injury; but how serious or with what character or
  weapon, or whether by a missile thrown by our men or by some of his
  fellow-rioters, is unascertained.

  The pretence that our men were fighting "with stones, clubs, and
  bright arms" is, in view of these facts, incredible. It is further
  refuted by the fact that our prisoners, when searched, were absolutely
  without arms, only seven penknives being found in the possession of
  the men arrested, while there were received by our men more than
  thirty stab wounds, every one of which was inflicted in the back, and
  almost every contused wound was in the back or back of the head. The
  evidence of the ship's officer of the day is that even the jack-knives
  of the men were taken from them before leaving the ship....

  No amount of evasion or subterfuge is able to cloud our clear vision
  of this brutal work....

  It is quite remarkable and quite characteristic of the management of
  this affair by the Chilian police authorities that we should now be
  advised that Seaman Davidson, of the _Baltimore_, has been included
  in the indictment, his offence being, so far as I have been able to
  ascertain, that he attempted to defend a shipmate against an assailant
  who was striking at him with a knife. The perfect vindication of our
  men is furnished by this report; one only is found to have been guilty
  of criminal fault, and that for an act clearly justifiable....

  The evidence of our sailors clearly shows that the attack was
  expected by the Chilian people, that threats had been made against
  our men, and that, in one case somewhat early in the afternoon, the
  keeper of one house into which some of our men had gone closed his
  establishment in anticipation of the attack, which he advised them
  would be made upon them as darkness came on....

  Several of our men sought security from the mob by such complete
  or partial changes in their dress as would conceal the fact of their
  being seamen of the _Baltimore_, and found it then possible to
  walk the streets without molestation. These incidents conclusively
  establish that the attack was upon the uniform--the nationality--and
  not upon the men.

       ·       ·       ·       ·       ·

  The testimony of Captain Jenkins, of the American merchant ship
  _Keweenaw_, which had gone to Valparaiso for repairs, and who was a
  witness of some part of the assault upon the crew of the _Baltimore_,
  is strongly corroborative of the testimony of our own sailors when
  he says that he saw Chilian sentries drive back a seaman, seeking
  shelter, upon a mob that was pursuing him. The officers and men of
  Captain Jenkins' ship furnish the most conclusive testimony as to
  the indignities which were practised toward Americans in Valparaiso.
  When American sailors, even of merchant ships, can only secure their
  safety by denying their nationality, it must be time to readjust our
  relations with a government that permits such demonstrations.

  As to the participation of the police, the evidence of our sailors
  shows that our men were struck and beaten by police officers before
  and after arrest, and that one at least was dragged with a lasso
  about his neck by a mounted policeman. That the death of Riggin was
  the result of a rifle-shot fired by a policeman or soldier on duty is
  shown directly by the testimony of Johnson, in whose arms he was at
  the time, and by the evidence of Charles Langen, an American sailor
  not then a member of the _Baltimore's_ crew, who stood close by and
  saw the transaction. The Chilian authorities do not pretend to fix the
  responsibility of this shot upon any particular person, but avow their
  inability to ascertain who fired it, further than that it was fired
  from a crowd....

  The communications of the Chilian Government in relation to this
  cruel and disastrous attack upon our men, as will appear from the
  correspondence, have not in any degree taken the form of a manly and
  satisfactory expression of regret, much less of apology. The event
  was of so serious a character that, if the injuries suffered by our
  men had been wholly the result of an accident in a Chilian port, the
  incident was grave enough to have called for some public expression
  of sympathy and regret from the local authorities. It is not enough
  to say that the affair was lamentable, for humanity would require
  that expression, even if the beating and killing of our men had been
  justifiable. It is not enough to say that the incident is regretted,
  coupled with the statement that the affair was not of an unusual
  character in ports where foreign sailors are accustomed to meet. It is
  not for a generous and sincere government to seek for words of small
  or equivocal meaning in which to convey to a friendly power an apology
  for an offence so atrocious as this. In the case of the assault by a
  mob in New Orleans upon the Spanish consulate in 1851, Mr. Webster
  wrote to the Spanish minister, Mr. Calderon, that the acts complained
  of were "a disgraceful and flagrant breach of duty and propriety,"
  and that his Government "regrets them as deeply as Minister Calderon
  or his Government could possibly do;" that "these acts have caused
  the President great pain, and he thinks a proper acknowledgment is
  due to Her Majesty's Government." He invited the Spanish consul to
  return to his post, guaranteeing protection, and offered to salute the
  Spanish flag if the consul should come in a Spanish vessel. Such a
  treatment by the Government of Chili of this assault would have been
  more creditable to the Chilian authorities; and much less can hardly
  be satisfactory to a government that values its dignity and honor.

       ·       ·       ·       ·       ·

  On the 21st instant I caused to be communicated to the Government of
  Chili, by the American minister at Santiago, the conclusions of this
  Government after a full consideration of all the evidence and of every
  suggestion affecting this matter, and to these conclusions I adhere.
  They were stated as follows:

  "First. That the assault is not relieved of the aspect which the
  early information of the event gave to it, viz.: That of an attack
  upon the uniform of the United States Navy, having its origin and
  motive in a feeling of hostility to this Government, and not in any
  act of the sailors or of any of them.

  "Second. That the public authorities of Valparaiso flagrantly
  failed in their duty to protect our men, and that some of the police
  and of the Chilian soldiers and sailors were themselves guilty of
  unprovoked assaults upon our sailors before and after arrest. He [the
  President] thinks the preponderance of the evidence and the inherent
  probabilities lead to the conclusion that Riggin was killed by the
  police or soldiers.

  "Third. That he [the President] is therefore compelled to bring the
  case back to the position taken by this Government in the note of Mr.
  Wharton of October 23 last, ... and to ask for a suitable apology and
  for some adequate reparation for the injury done to this Government."

  In the same note the attention of the Chilian Government was
  called to the offensive character of a note addressed by Mr. Matta,
  its Minister of Foreign Affairs, to Mr. Montt, its minister at
  this capital, on the 11th ultimo. This despatch was not officially
  communicated to this Government; but, as Mr. Montt was directed to
  translate it and to give it to the press of this country, it seemed
  to me that it could not pass without official notice. It was not
  only undiplomatic, but grossly insulting to our naval officers and
  to the Executive Department, as it directly imputed untruth and
  insincerity to the reports of the naval officers and to the official
  communications made by the Executive Department to Congress. It will
  be observed that I have notified the Chilian Government that, unless
  this note is at once withdrawn and an apology as public as the offence
  made, I will terminate diplomatic relations.

  The request for the recall of Mr. Egan upon the ground that he was
  not _persona grata_ was unaccompanied by any suggestion that could
  properly be used in support of it, and I infer that the request is
  based upon official acts of Mr. Egan which have received the approval
  of this Government. But however that may be, I could not consent to
  consider such a question until it had first been settled whether our
  correspondence with Chili could be conducted upon a basis of mutual
  respect.

  In submitting these papers to Congress for that grave and patriotic
  consideration which the questions involved demand, I desire to say
  that I am of the opinion that the demands made of Chili by this
  Government should be adhered to and enforced. If the dignity as
  well as the prestige and influence of the United States are not to
  be wholly sacrificed, we must protect those who, in foreign ports,
  display the flag or wear the colors of this Government against insult,
  brutality, and death inflicted in resentment of the acts of their
  Government, and not for any fault of their own. It has been my desire
  in every way to cultivate friendly and intimate relations with all
  the governments of this hemisphere. We do not covet their territory;
  we desire their peace and prosperity. We look for no advantage in our
  relations with them, except the increased exchanges of commerce upon a
  basis of mutual benefit. We regret every civil contest that disturbs
  their peace and paralyzes their development, and are always ready to
  give our good offices for the restoration of peace. It must, however,
  be understood that this Government, while exercising the utmost
  forbearance toward weaker powers, will extend its strong and adequate
  protection to its citizens, to its officers, and to its humblest
  sailors when made the victims of wantonness and cruelty in resentment,
  not of their personal misconduct, but of the official acts of their
  Government.

  Upon information received that Patrick Shields, an Irishman and
  probably a British subject, but at the time a fireman of the American
  steamer _Keweenaw_, in the harbor of Valparaiso for repairs, had been
  subjected to personal injuries in that city--largely by the police--I
  directed the Attorney-General to cause the evidence of the officers
  and crew of that vessel to be taken upon its arrival in San Francisco;
  and that testimony is also herewith transmitted. The brutality and
  even savagery of the treatment of this poor man by the Chilian police
  would be incredible if the evidence of Shields was not supported by
  other direct testimony and by the distressing condition of the man
  himself when he was finally able to reach his vessel....

  A claim for reparation has been made in behalf of this man, for
  while he was not a citizen of the United States, the doctrine long
  held by us, as expressed in the Consular Regulations, is "the
  principles which are maintained by this Government in regard to the
  protection, as distinguished from the relief, of seamen are well
  settled. It is held that the circumstance that the vessel is American
  is evidence that the seamen on board are such; and in every regularly
  documented merchant vessel the crew will find their protection in the
  flag that covers them."

  I have as yet received no reply to our note of the 21st instant, but
  in my opinion I ought not to delay longer to bring these matters to
  the attention of Congress for such action as may be deemed appropriate.

BENJ. HARRISON.

EXECUTIVE MANSION,

January 25, 1892.




INDEX TO SPEECHES, ETC.


  Akron, Colorado, reception address at, 460

  Albany, Oregon, reception address at, 402

  Albany, New York, reception address at, 498

  Alger, Gen. R. A., response of, 69

  Allen County, Ohio, to delegation from, 149

  Alliance, Ohio, reception address at, 284

  Altoona, Pa., reception address at, 487

  American Fork, Utah, reception address at, 435

  Anderson, Indiana, reception address at, 271

  Anniston, Alabama, reception address at, 308

  Ashland, Oregon, reception address at, 400

  Ashland, Nebraska, reception address at, 464

  Atchison, Kansas, reception address at, 259

  Atlanta, Georgia, address to students, 304
    farewell address, 305
    Mr. Wanamaker's address, 306

  Augusta, Georgia, to exposition committee from, 549


  Bakersfield, California, reception address at, 362

  Baker City, Oregon, reception address at, 425

  Banning, California, reception address at, 341

  Bartholomew County, Indiana, to delegation from, 90

  Bellefontaine, Ohio, to delegation from, 89
    reception address at, 277

  Bellows Falls, Vermont, reception address at, 540

  Benicia, California, reception address at, 392

  Bennington trip, 1891, personnel of party, 493

  Bennington, Vermont, Battle Monument address, 502
    at great tent banquet, 505

  Benton Harbor, Michigan, to delegation from, 41

  Benton County, Indiana, to delegation from, 44

  Berkeley, California, at State University, 393
    dumb and blind institute, 394

  Billings Park, Vermont, speech at horse fair, 535

  Birmingham, Alabama, reception address at, 311
    luncheon address, 313

  Blackford County, Indiana, to delegation from, 163

  Blaine Club of Kansas City, address to, at Indianapolis, 76

  Blaine reception, demonstration at Indianapolis Oct. 11, 1888, 170

  Bloomington, Illinois, to delegation from, 62

  Boise City, Idaho, reception address at, 427

  Boone County, Indiana, to delegation from, 46

  Boston, Mass., reception address at, 226
    Mayor's Club banquet, 228
    G. A. R. national encampment, 230

  Bradford, Vermont, reception address at, 536

  Brandon, Vermont, reception address at, 516

  Brattleboro, Vermont, reception address at, 542

  Bristol, Tennessee, reception address at, 291

  Brown County, Indiana, to delegation from, 70

  Buena Vista, Colorado, reception address at, 444

  Burlington, Vermont, reception address at, 519


  California delegates to Chicago, visit from, 29

  California tour, 1891, personnel of party, 289

  Cañon City, Colorado, reception address at, 446

  Canton, Ohio, reception address at, 283

  Cartersville, Georgia, reception address at, 302

  Cascade Locks, Oregon, reception address at, 421

  Castleton, Vermont, reception address at, 515

  Centennial address, New York City, April 30, 1889, 207

  Centralia, Washington, reception address at, 412

  Champaign County, Illinois, to delegation from, 55

  Champaign, Illinois, reception address at, 241

  Charlestown, New Hampshire, reception address at, 539

  Chattanooga, Tennessee, reception address at, 301

  Chehalis, Washington, reception address at, 420

  Chemawa, Oregon, reception address at, 405

  Chicago, Marquette Club banquet address, 16
    to committee from Marquette Club, 31
    to Irish-American Club from, 124
    to commercial travellers from, 140
    to delegation business men from, 155
    to Union veterans and others from, 166
    to German-American Club from, 172
    Auditorium dedication address, 218

  Chilian Minister, official reception of, response to, 557

  Chilian affair, message on, January 25, 1892, 564-70

  Chrisman, Illinois, reception address at, 479

  Cincinnati, Ohio, to Lincoln Club from, 49

  Cincinnati Exposition Committee, visit from, 136

  Cincinnati Exposition, invitation committee from, 171

  Clay County, Indiana, to delegation from, 60

  Clayton, Indiana, reunion 70th Regiment, 115

  Clearfield, Pa., trip to the coal regions, 231

  Cleveland, Ohio, to delegation from, 152
    Garfield mausoleum dedication, 222

  Clifton Forge, Virginia, reception address at, 235

  Clinton County, Indiana, to delegation from, 72

  Coles County, Illinois, to delegation from, 57

  Colorado Springs, Colorado, address to scholars, 450
    reception address, 453

  Colton, California, reception address at, 339

  Columbus, Ohio, to delegation veteran voters from, 145
    to Garfield Club and Gov. Foraker, 174
    reception address at, Feb. 25, 1889, 192
    reception address at, May 14, 1891, 487

  Commercial travellers of Indiana, address to, 40

  Commercial travellers of Ill. and Ind., address to, 92

  Commercial travellers of Chicago, address to, 139

  Commercial travellers of United States, address to, 177

  Council Bluffs, Iowa, reception address at, 471

  Cresson, Pa., to visiting Altoona veterans, 231

  Crestline, Ohio, reception address at, 278

  Crete, Nebraska, reception address at, 462


  Danville, Indiana, to Republican Club from, June 25, 1888, 25

  Danville, Illinois, reception address at, 240

  Dayton, Ohio, to delegation from, 137
    reception address at, 485

  Decatur County, Indiana, to delegation from, 87

  Decatur, Illinois, reception address at, 476

  Defiance, Ohio, reception address at, 94

  De Graff, Ohio, reception address at, 276

  Delaware County, Indiana, to delegation from, 87

  Del Rio, Texas, reception address at, 332

  Deming, New Mexico, reception address at, 335

  Denver, Colorado, address at Capitol, 454
    address at Hotel Metropole, 459

  Depew, Hon. Chauncey M., visits the nominee, 171

  Detroit, Michigan Club banquet address, 9

  Diaz, President Porfirio, telegram from, 350

  Douglas County, Illinois, to delegation from, 84

  Duluth, Minnesota, to delegation from, 156


  Ecumenical Conference, address to, at Washington, 550

  Edgar County, Illinois, to delegation from, 57

  Election results, popular vote for President, 1888, 188

  Electoral College, extract from President's message, Dec., 1891, 560

  Eleventh Indiana Regiment, survivors received, 171

  Elkhart County, Indiana, to delegation from, 146

  El Paso, Texas, reception address at, 333

  Ex-prisoners of war, address to, at Indianapolis, 129


  Fair Haven, Vermont, reception address at, 514

  Florence, Colorado, reception address at, 447

  Floyd County, Indiana, to delegation from, 122

  Foraker, Gov. J. B., congratulates the nominee, 174

  Ford County, Illinois, to delegation from, 89

  Fort Wayne, Indiana, reception address at, 99

  Foster, ex-Gov. Charles, introduces the nominee, 97

  Fountain County, Indiana, to delegation from, 162

  Fresno, California, reception address at, 365

  Fulton County, Indiana, to delegation from, 156


  Galesburg, Illinois, reception address at, 243
    address at reunion 1st Brigade, 246
    Alumni Hall, Knox College, 251
    Phi Delta Theta banquet, 251
    at 1st Brigade banquet, 252

  Galveston, Texas, great speech and reception, 322

  Garfield Club of Columbus, address to, at Indianapolis, 175

  Garfield Monument, address at dedication of, 225

  G. A. R. veterans and Gov. Rusk, address to, at Indianapolis, 120

  G. A. R. installation officers, address to comrades, 189

  G. A. R. camp fire, Indianapolis, address to comrades, 216

  G. A. R. national encampment, address at Boston, 228

  Gilroy, California, reception address at, 377

  Glenwood Springs, Colorado, reception address at, 437
    address to miners, 438
    address to children, 440

  Godfrey Commandery of Chicago, visit from, 83

  Grand Rapids, Michigan, to delegation from, 159

  Greenville, Tennessee, reception address at, 296

  Grundy County, Illinois, to delegation from, 134


  Hamilton County, Indiana, to delegation from, June 25, 1888, 26
    to delegation from, August 14, 1888, 83

  Hancock County, Ohio, to delegation from, 149

  Hannibal, Missouri, reception address at, 472

  Harrison, Gen. Benj., biographical sketch of, 7-8

  Harrison League of Indianapolis, address to, 33

  Harrisburg, Pa., reception address at, 488

  Hastings, Nebraska, reception address at, 461

  Hendricks County, Indiana, to delegation from, June 25, 1888, 25
    to delegation from, Nov. 9, 1888, 188

  Henry County, Indiana, to delegation from, 67

  Hill, Gov. David B., his invitation to the President, 497

  Hood River Station, Oregon, reception address at, 421

  Houston, Texas, reception address at, 321

  Houtzdale, Pa., reception address at, 233

  Howard County, Indiana, to delegation from, June 25, 1888, 26
    to delegation from, July 18, 1888, 50

  Huntington, Indiana, reception address at, 101

  Hyde Park, Illinois, to delegation from, 166


  Inaugural Executive Committee, personnel of, 193

  Inaugural address, March 4, 1889, 194-203

  Indianapolis, to his neighbors, June 25, 1888, 27
    to Indiana delegates, June 26, 1888, 29
    to colored citizens, June 30, 1888, 33
    to veterans 70th Regiment, 28
    to veterans 26th Infantry, 134
    to veterans 7th Cavalry, 131
    to veterans 79th Regiment, 176
    to veterans and neighbors, 32
    introducing Gen. R. A. Alger, 69
    official notification, July 4, 1888, 35
    to Tippecanoe veterans, July 4, 1888, 38
    to railroad employees, July 13, 1888, 47
    speech at State Convention, Aug. 8, 1888, 80
    on returning from Put-in Bay, Sept. 4, 1888, 105
    great street demonstration, Sept. 6, 1888, 106
    address to children, Sept. 8, 1888, 107
    to the Porter-Columbian Club, Oct. 3, 1888, 158
    Labor-Day address, Oct. 25, 1888, 183
    to railroad clubs of Indiana, Oct. 27, 1888, 185
    to the saw-makers of city, Nov. 9, 1888, 188
    to G. A. R. veterans, Jan. 1, 1889, 189
    farewell to neighbors, Feb. 25, 1889, 191
    dedication Soldiers' Monument, 211
    at G. A. R. camp-fire, Aug. 22, 1889, 216
    at reunion 70th Regiment, Aug. 23, 1889, 217
    the home welcome, May 14, 1891, 481

  Indio, California, received by Gov. Markham, 338

  Irish-American Club, address to, Sept. 15, 1888, 125

  Iroquois County, Illinois, to delegation from, 131


  Jacksonville, Illinois, to delegation from, July 19, 1888, 51
    to delegation from, Aug. 17, 1888, 90

  Janesville, Wisconsin, to delegation from, Oct. 5, 1888, 161

  Jay County, Indiana, to delegation from, Sept. 21, 1888, 137
    to delegation from, Oct. 4, 1888, 159

  Jennings County, Indiana, to delegation from, July 28, 1888, 65

  Johnson County, Indiana, to delegation from, Aug. 17, 1888, 90

  Johnson City, Tennessee, reception address at, 293

  Jonesboro, Tennessee, reception address at, 295


  Kankakee, Illinois, to delegation from, 90

  Kansas City, Missouri, to Blaine Club from, 77
    to Scott Rifles from, 121
    banquet address at, 265
    Chamber Commerce speech, 266
    letter to Commercial Congress, 286

  Kansas veterans, address to, at Indianapolis, 108

  Kingston, New York, reception address at, 495

  Knightstown, Indiana, to soldiers' orphans at, 192

  Knoxville, Tennessee, reception address at, 299

  Kokomo, Indiana, to delegations from, 26, 50
    reception address at, 103

  Kosciusko County, Indiana, to delegation from, 63


  Labor-Day address, close of the great campaign, 182

  La Porte County, Indiana, to delegation from, 132

  Lathrop, California, reception address at, 368

  Lawrenceburg, Indiana, reception address at, 235

  Lawrence, Kansas, reception address at, 265

  Leadville, Colorado, reception address at, 442

  Le Grande, Oregon, reception address at, 424

  Lehi City, Utah, reception address at, 434

  Letter of acceptance, Sept. 11, 1888, 108

  Letter to Commercial Congress, April 14, 1891, 286

  Letter on tin plate, its manufacture in America, 554

  Lincoln, Nebraska, reception address at, 463
    thanks to travelling men, 464

  Lincoln Club, Cincinnati, address to, at Indianapolis, 49

  Little Rock, Arkansas, reception address at, 317

  Lordsburg, New Mexico, reception address at, 336

  Los Angeles, California, reception address at, 345
    speech at the pavilion, 347

  Los Gatos, California, reception address at, 381

  Louisville, Kentucky, to delegation from, 128


  Macon County, Illinois, to delegation from, 84

  Madison, Wisconsin, to delegation from, 161

  Mansfield, Ohio, reception address at, 279

  Marion County, Indiana, to the Tippecanoe Club, 38

  Marquette Club, Chicago, speech at banquet, 16
    to delegates from, 31
    the President received by, 219

  Marshall County, Indiana, to delegation from, 156

  Maryville, Missouri, reception address at, 472

  Massillon, Ohio, reception address at, 282

  Medford, Oregon, reception address at, 401

  Memphis, Tennessee, reception address at, 315

  Merced, California, reception address at, 366

  Message to Congress, presidential electors, Dec. 9, 1891, 560-63
    Chilian affair, Dec. 9, 1891, 558
    Chilian affair, Jan. 25, 1892, 564-70

  McDaniels, L. W., extract from his address, 182

  Michigan Club, Detroit, speech at banquet, 9

  Middlebury, Vermont, reception address at, 517

  Miller, Hon. Warner, famous telegram to, 189

  Milwaukee German American Club, address to, 172

  Modesto, California, reception address at, 367

  Monterey, California, reception address at, 379

  Montezuma, Indiana, welcomed by Gov. Hovey, 480

  Montgomery County, Indiana, to delegation from, 71

  Monticello, Illinois, to delegation from, 51

  Montpelier, Vermont, address to Legislature, 527
    reception address at, 529

  Montt, Señor Don Pedro, his address to the President, 556

  Morgan County, Indiana, to delegation from, 70

  Morgan County, Illinois, to delegation from, 90

  Morristown, Tennessee, reception address at, 297

  Mt. McGregor, New York, birthday dinner speech, 510

  Muncie, Indiana, reception address at, 272

  Muskegon, Michigan, to delegation from, 159


  Newburgh, New York, reception address at, 494

  New York City, Washington centenary speech, 204
    Centennial banquet address, 209

  Ninth Indiana Cavalry, address to survivors, 134

  Noblesville, Indiana, reception address at, 104

  Normal, Illinois, to students from, 152

  North Vernon, Indiana, reception address at, 236

  Northen, Gov. Wm. J., welcomes the President, 303

  Nortonville, Kansas, reception address at, 263

  Notification committee, personnel of, 36


  Oakland, California, reception address at, 395

  Ogden, Utah, committee escorts President, 430

  Omaha, Nebraska, reception address at, 465
    addresses to school children, 470

  Ontario, California, reception address at, 340

  Orange, California, reception address at, 351

  Oregon City, Oregon, reception address at, 406

  Orrville, Ohio, reception address at, 281

  Osceola, Pa., reception address at, 231

  Ottumwa, Iowa, speech at Coal Palace, 255

  Oxford College, Ohio, visit from students, 186


  Palestine, Texas, received by Gov. Hogg, 319

  Parke County, Indiana, to delegation from, 143

  Pasadena, California, reception address at, 356

  Paxton, Illinois, to delegation from, 89

  Pendleton, Oregon, reception address at, 423

  Pennsylvania gas men, address to, at Indianapolis, 151

  Peo, Umatilla chief, his unique address to President, 423

  Peoria, Illinois, reception address at, 242

  Peru, Indiana, reception address at, 102

  Philadelphia, speech at Independence Hall, 491
    remarks at Gen Meade's grave, 492

  Phillipsburg, Pa., reception at, Sept. 20, 1890, 234

  Plainfield, Indiana, to delegation from, 26

  Plainfield, Vermont, reception address at, 530

  Pocatello, Idaho, reception address at, 429

  Pomona, California, reception address at, 342

  Porter-Columbian Club, address to members, 158

  Portland, Oregon, reception address at, 408
    Secretary Rusk's address, 411
    Postmaster-General Wanamaker's speech, 410

  Proctor, Vermont, farewell to New England, 546

  Provo City, Utah, reception address at, 434

  Pueblo, Colorado, address to school children, 448
    Mineral Palace speech, 449

  Puget Sound, remarks on board steamship, 415

  Pullman, Illinois, to delegation from, 166

  Put-in Bay, Ohio, reception address at, 97

  Puyallup, Washington, reception address at, 420


  Railroad Club of Terre Haute, address to, 73

  Railroad clubs of Indiana, address to, 185

  Railroad employees of Indianapolis, address to, 47

  Railroad employees should be protected, message, 559

  Randolph County, Indiana, to delegation from, 137

  Ransom Post, G. A. R., address to delegation from, 119

  Red Bluff, California, reception address at, 398

  Redding, California, reception address at, 399

  Redwood City, California, reception address at, 375

  Republican State Convention, speech before, 81

  Richmond, Indiana, reception address at, Feb. 25, 1889, 192
    reception address at, May 14, 1891, 483

  Richmond, Vermont, reception address at, 524

  Riverside, California, reception address at, 352

  Roanoke, Virginia, reception address at, 290

  Rush County, Indiana, to delegation from, 86

  Rusk, Gov. J. M., names Gen. Harrison for a second term, 120

  Rusk, Secretary, speech of, at Portland, Oregon, 411

  Rutland, Vermont, reception address at, 544


  Sacramento, California, address at State House, 391

  Salem, Oregon, address at Capitol, 403

  Salida, Colorado, reception address at, 445

  Salt Lake, Utah, reception address at, 431
    Chamber Commerce speech, 433
    address to children, 434

  San Antonio, Texas, reception address at, 329

  San Bernardino, California, reception address at, 353

  San Buena Ventura, California, reception address at, 359

  San Diego, California, to Indiana residents, 347
    at citizens' reception, 349
    response to Gov. Torres, 350

  San Fernando, California, reception address at, 358

  San Francisco, the arrival address, 371
    Sutro Heights speech, 372
    at Phi Delta Theta banquet, 373
    launch of the _Monterey_, 374
    reception at Senator Stanford's, 375
    Chamber Commerce speech, 383
    address to veterans, May 1, 384
    Palace Hotel banquet speech, 386
    at Union League reception, 396
    farewell to California, 397

  San José, California, reception address at, 376

  Santa Ana, California, reception address at, 351

  Santa Barbara, California, reception address at, 361

  Santa Cruz, California, reception address at, 380

  Santa Paula, California, reception address at, 358

  Saratoga, New York, reception address at, 511
    House of Pansa reception, 512

  Seattle, Washington, reception address at, 417
    Mr. Wanamaker's address, 419

  Second Indiana Cavalry, address to survivors, 134

  Seventieth Indiana Infantry, reunion address, Sept. 13, 1888, 116
    reunion address, Aug. 23, 1889, 216

  Seventh Indiana Cavalry, address to survivors, 131

  Seventy-ninth Indiana Infantry, address to survivors, 176

  Seymour, Indiana, reception address at, 237

  Shelby County, Indiana, to delegation from, 54

  Shenandoah, Iowa, reception address at, 471

  Shoals, Indiana, reception address at, 238

  Sisson, California, reception address at, 400

  Soldiers' Monument, Indianapolis, dedicatory address, 214

  South Chicago, Illinois, to delegation from, 166

  Springfield, Ohio, to delegation from, 180

  Springfield, Illinois, to delegation from, 52
    at Lincoln's tomb, 473
    State House address, 475

  Springville, Utah, reception address at, 436

  State Fair, Indianapolis, address to exhibitors, 136

  St. Albans, Vermont, reception address at, 521

  St. Johnsbury, Vermont, reception address at, 531

  St. Joseph, Missouri, reception address at, 258

  St. Louis, Missouri, delegation from Ransom Post, 119
    Loyal Legion delegation, 171
    Merchants' Exchange speech, 268
    at Jockey Club banquet, 270

  Sullivan, Indiana, reception address at, 238

  Sutro, Hon. Adolph, presentation address to President, 372


  Tacoma, Washington, reception address at, 413
    Mrs. Harrison's thanks, 414

  Tallapoosa, Georgia, reception address at, 307

  Terre Haute, Indiana, to Railroad Club from, 74
    response to chair presentation, 187
    reception address at, 239

  Texarkana, Arkansas, reception address at, 318

  Texas G. A. R. veterans, visit to Gen. Harrison, 122

  The Dalles, Oregon, reception address at, 422

  Tiffin, Ohio, to delegation from, 159

  Tippecanoe County, Indiana, to delegation from, 78

  Tipton, Indiana, reception address at, 104

  Tipton County, Indiana, to delegation from, 146

  Toledo, Ohio, reception address at, 95

  Topeka, Kansas, address to veterans, 261

  Tower, Minnesota, to delegation from, 156

  Troy, New York, reception address at, 500

  Tucson, Arizona, reception address at, 337

  Tulare, California, reception address at, 364

  Tuscola, Illinois, reception address at, 478

  Twenty-sixth Indiana Infantry, address to survivors, 134


  Union City, Indiana, reception address at, 274

  Union ex-prisoners war address to delegates, 130


  Valley Falls, Kansas, reception address at, 264

  Vanderberg County, Indiana, to delegation from, 79

  Vergennes, Vermont, reception address at, 518

  Vermilion County, Indiana, to delegation from, 90

  Vermilion County, Illinois, to delegation from, 126


  Wabash County, Indiana, to veterans from, 42
    to delegation from, July 12, 1888, 43
    to delegation from, Sept. 25, 1888, 143

  Wanamaker, Hon. John, address at Atlanta, 306
    address at Portland, 410
    address at Seattle, 419

  Washington, D. C., to Augusta Exposition Committee, 549
    to Methodist Ecumenical Conference, 551
    the return to, May 15, 1891, 489

  Waterbury, Vermont, reception address at, 525

  Watsonville, California, reception address at, 378

  Wells County, Indiana, to delegation from, 163

  Western tour, 1890, personnel of party, 234

  Whitehall, New York, reception address at, 513

  Winchester, Indiana, reception address at, 274

  Windsor, Vermont, reception address at, 537

  Wooster, Ohio, reception address at, 280


  Xenia, Ohio, reception address at, 486




Transcriber's Note

  Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. Inconsistent
  spelling and hyphenation in the original document have been
  preserved.





End of Project Gutenberg's Speeches of Benjamin Harrison, by Benjamin Harrison

